Please note that this is a talk organised by the Java Web Users Group, who have kindly invited all of our members to attend. Subject: Closures in Java - Comparing the choices Speakers: Stephen Colebourne, Sun Java Champion Abstract: 'Closures' are one of the hottest topics in the Java community rightnow. The debate is over whether some form of closures would be auseful and worthwhile addition to the Java programming language inversion 7. This talk will explain what a closure is and compare the three mainproposals - BGGA, FCM and CICE. After attending you will be able toform your own opinions on whether Java should be changed, and whichproposal is the way to go. Biography * Java Champion* Co-author, FCM closures* Regular contributor to Java language change debate* Conference speaker* Co-spec lead, JSR-310, Date and Time API* Project lead, Joda-Time* Member, Apache Software Foundation* http://jroller.com/sc... References * BGGA = Gilad Bracha, Neal Gafter, James Gosling and Peter von der Ah Proposal http://www.javac.info...Main Page http://www.javac.info... * FCM = First Class Methods by Stephen Colebourne and Stefan Schulz Proposal http://docs.google.co... * CICE = Concise Instance Creation Expressions by Bob Lee, DougLea and Josh Bloch Proposal http://docs.google.co... For more infohttp://www.jroller.co... For registrationhttp://skillsmatter.c...
I would like to formally announce that JAVAWUG (Java Web User Group) is holding the Thirty Sixth Birds-of-Feather (Meet-up 36) at Sun CBC on Wednesday, 16th April 2008 from 18:45 until 20:15. TalkSeam is an open source "deep integration" framework that tries to have the best of both the Java EE and Spring worlds. Seam is firmly rooted in Java EE standards. It started out to address the design flaws between two key Java EE frameworks: JSF and EJB3. Some of its core features are being adopted in future official Java EE standards such as JSF 2.0 and WebBeans. As more and more users start to adopt Seam, it has expanded far beyond the scope of Java EE. This talk will start with a brief on Java Server Faces, EJB 3.0, AJAX, Remoting then an introduction on Seam, - What is Seam, The contextual component model, State management, ... - What advantage you have by using Seam in your project. - It's time to deprecate the Stateless Web Application !! Links : Seam Framework : http://www.seamframew...JBoss Community : http://labs.jboss.com...WebBeans (JSR 299) : http://jcp.org/en/jsr...Java Server Faces : http://java.sun.com/j...EJB 3.0 : http://java.sun.com/p...Facelets : https://facelets.dev.... Attendee should have a basic knowledge of Java Web Development (JSP, JSF, Struts, ..) and also a general understanding of Java EE5. Biography Sebastien Degardin is a Java EE developer involved in the JBoss Seam community.Having experience in Java SE and Java EE (mainly Java EE 5 and EJB3)).He currently trying to become specialist in transactional system (JTA and others).Sebastien used to live in Brussels, San Francisco, now involved in projects in London. RegistrationThis time we will return to the Sun CBC. The address is: Sun Microsystems Ltd.Regis House45 King William StreetLondonEC4R 9ANTel: (020) 7628 3000Fax: (020) 7626 1646 If you would like to attend:Join the JAVAWUG at Google GroupsSend an EMAIL directly to the peter dot pilgrim gmail dot com with the Subject REGISTRATION BOF 36 and please tell usYOUR FIRST and LAST NAMESCOMPANY YOU WORK FORoptional telephone number We will probably go to restaurant/bar after the talk: The Fine Line (Google Map), which luckily has an on-line web site (1 Monument St, London, EC3R 8BG) Get Directions * approximate times - m.lkghp?m.lkghp.actual_url:m.lkghp);lkgdomainm.lkghp?m.lkghp.domain:null)">Here is some relevant travel information: By Underground:-Bank, Monument, London Bridge are about five minutes on foot away from the Sun CBCMap: CBC London Office LocationThe venue has graciously been organised by Sun Microsystems UK team. We all appreciate this generous gift. JAVAWUG.com
I would like to formally announce that JAVAWUG (Java Web User Group) is holding the Thirty Seven Birds-of-Feather (Meet-up 37) 20th May 2008 from 18:30 until 20:30. Talk Finding ways to reduce complexity is the single biggest challenge facing enterprise application developers, and applying techniques for modular development is critical to this cause. Impala is a dynamic module framework for Java enterprise application development. It builds on the Spring Framework to provide a genuinely modular, highly productive environment for web-based applications. It allows for applications which scale conceptually - that is, can grow very large without exploding in complexity. In this talk, Phil Zoio will demonstrate Impala, showing how it can speed up kick starting and developing applications. He will also show how Impala breaks down real world obstacles to building manageable, easily configurable enterprise software. The talk offers particular benefit to developers who have had some real world experience using the Spring Framework. Some knowledge of the Spring is assumed. Biography Phil Zoio is an independent Java developer and consultant, based in Suffolk in the UK. Phil is an active open source developer and writer of technical articles. As well as the creator of Impala, he is responsible for Strecks, a set of Java 5 extensions for Struts. He also writes a blog on Impala. Links Spring users: Seven Reasons Why You'll Like Impala: http://impalablog.blo...Impala Q & A: http://code.google.co...Impala Roadmap: http://code.google.co... Location This event is being organised and run by our friends at Java Web User Group. You are already a member with LJMG but To attend this meetup you will need to register with their group as well. The location details are not listed here as previously there has been confusion on whether people have registered or not, so full details including how to register can be found at this link. http://www.jroller.co... We apologise for the inconvenience of having to register for two different sites, but hope that you appreciate that we are a completely seperate entity and are merely trying to provide you with options for free events in London. As usual any feedback is gratefully received.
Mocking with Java Night Event Pitch A lot of people think that mocking is easy, they have usually embedded it into the way they think and the way they code. A lot of people think that mocking is hard, particularly on existing codebases, what should they mock, where and what value does mocking really bring to developers? Good mocking means touching on a lot of important topics in development. Some are fundamental object orientated design theories like encapsulation and decoupling. Some are hot new buzzwords like behaviour-driven development. Mocking supports many well-established Agile practices such as refactoring. One thing that advocates of mocking are united in is that code that is mockable is code whose behaviour will be easier to verify and verifiable code is more reliable code and reliable code is better code. Evening's Agenda 6pm Introductions6.15pm Nat Pryce and Steve Freeman7pm Food7.30pm Mockito with Felix Leipold8pm Mocking with JMock exercise Speakers Nat Pryce and Steve Freeman on Mocking and JMockFelix Leipold on MockitoSpeaker's BiographiesSteve Freeman Steve is a pioneer of Agile software development in the UK, he has built applications for banks, ISPs, financial data providers, and specialist software companies. He has trained and coached teams in Europe , America, and Asia. Previously, he worked in research labs, software houses, earned a PhD, and wrote shrink-wrap software. Steve also taught in the Computer Science department at University College London. He is a presenter and organizer at international industry conferences, and was conference chair for the first London XpDay. Steve was an author of the original Mock Objects paper and is a committer on jMock and Hamcrest. www.m3p.co.uk/blogwww.mockobjects.com Nat Pryce Nat Pryce provides consultancy and training in software design and development process and practices, mostly in the finance and telecomsindustries. He is also a part-time research fellow at Imperial Collegewhere he studies mobile, context aware systems. He frequently presents at international conferences. He helpedestablish the XP Day family of conferences and was programme chair ofXP Day London in 2005 and 2006. He is a developer of jMock and Hamcrest, which has now been integratedinto JUnit. He has also released a number of other open sourcelibraries and tools to support agile and test-driven development. He (occasionally) blogs at http://nat.truemesh.c.... Felix Leipold Felix Leipold is a programmer, who currently works as a Consultant for ThoughtWorks UK. He has worked in several projects using agile methods and TDD. Before joining ThoughtWorks in 2006 he worked for SAP in Germany, where he was involved in application and tools development. Currently he is thinking a lot about "how to get testing right", especially on large scale projects. He was lucky enough to be around, when Szczepan Faber came up with his Mockito mocking library, an attempt to make mocking and stubbing more simple. Mockito embodies some of the lessons learnt from working in large development teams. Location and sign up details This event is being organised and run by London Geek Nights. You are already a member with LJMG but To attend this meetup you will need to register with their site as well. The location details are not listed here as previously there has been confusion on whether people have registered or not, so full details including how to register can be found at this link. http://londongeeknigh... We apologise for the inconvenience of having to register for a different site, but hope that you appreciate that we are a completely seperate entity and are merely trying to provide you with options for free events in London. As usual any feedback is gratefully received.
Beers, Burgers and discussions meet up for the Tuesday the 3rd of June from 6pm. The address is: Montagu Pyke, 105-107 Charing Cross Road; it's just opposite the Blackwell's bookshop, you can't miss it.Nearest Tubes: Leicester Square and Tottenham CT Road. Remember all those ideas you've had about the user group? Well, now is the time to let us know about them. Please note: there are no technical stuff planned, so don't expect any. The night is just an opportunity to drink beer, eat pizza/burger and know your user group members. It also gives you the opportunity to share what you are working on, share your tips, suggest any topics you'd like to present or anything you'd like to see improved/changed or introduced. Finally, because there is no sponsor for this meet up, that means you have to buy your own drinks and meal. Don't let that put you off, just come and have some fun.
I would like to formally announce that JAVAWUG (Java Web User Group) is holding the Thirty Eighth Birds-of-Feather (Meet-up 38) at Skills Matter on Monday, 23rd June 2008 from 18:30 until 20:30. Talk: Concurrency and Performance Both Intel and Microsoft have recently said that we, as developers, need to start delivering more concurrency in our applications. How did we get here and what does it mean? In this talk, we will look at the trend towards more and more concurrent and and what this means for Java programmers. Can we expect that our Java applications will automatically take advantage of the extra processors, or will we need to become more aware of the hardware aspects of our system? Biography Kirk Pepperdine, Principle Consultant for Kodewerk Ltd, has been working in High Performance Computing and performance tuning systems for close to 20 years. Kirk has been nominated to the Java Champion program. He speaks regularly on topics related to performance. His latest talks have been about how to add rigor the performance tuning process to help improve consistancy of results and predicability of scheduling. References Java Performance Tuning Review (http://www.javaperfor... ) Kirk Pepperdine's Blog (http://kirk.blog-city... )Author at the Java Developers Journal (http://java.sys-con.c...) Afterwards members can retire to the nearby The Crown Tavern pub/restaurant for more in depth discussion dinner, food and drink ... Location This event is being organised and run by our friends at Java Web User Group. You are already a member with LJMG but To attend this meetup you will need to register with their group as well. The location details are not listed here as previously there has been confusion on whether people have registered or not, so full details including how to register can be found at this link. http://www.jroller.co... We apologise for the inconvenience of having to register for two different sites, but hope that you appreciate that we are a completely seperate entity and are merely trying to provide you with options for free events in London. As usual any feedback is gratefully received.
Sexier Software with Java and Flex Abstract: Building sexy software that users love is usually a challenging endeavor. The open source Flex SDK and Java are a perfect combination of technologies for building rich, sexy software - for the web and the desktop. Flex applications can run in the browser using the ubiquitous Flash Player or on the Desktop using the new Adobe Integrated Runtime (AIR). In both instances Java can be used for the back-end of the application. The communication between the Java back-end and Flex front-end can utilize a number of different communication protocols, but the easiest and best performing is the open source BlazeDS library. This session will cover the basics of using Flex, Java, and BlazeDS to build sexy software for the web and the desktop. Bio: James Ward (www.jamesward.com) is a Technical Evangelist for Flex at Adobe and Adobe's JCP representative to JSR 286, 299, and 301. Much like his love for climbing mountains he enjoys programming because it provides endless new discoveries, elegant workarounds, summits and valleys. His adventures in climbing have taken him many places. Likewise, technology has brought him many adventures, including: Pascal and Assembly back in the early 90's; Perl, HTML, and JavaScript in the mid 90's; then Java and many of it's frameworks beginning in the late 90's. Today he primarily uses Flex to build beautiful front-ends for Java based back-ends. Prior to Adobe, James built a rich marketing and customer service portal for Pillar Data Systems.
Java WUG will be holding a meeting this Thursday night at the Princess Louise in Holborn http://www.fancyapint... Remember, this is just a meetup where we discuss what we've been working on, and drink beer - and get to know your fellow user group members. There's no technical session planned, but you're very free to bring your laptop and show off any thing you are working on. Again Chris is London this week, and this a great opportunity to meet him and find out how things have been going on Singapore. Maybe we can walk to SOHO and grab a Chinese or get some food elsewhere circa 8:30-9pm Covent Garden is near by. Hope to see a good turn out again.
One of our members has asked us to promote an event on behalf of the Scala LUG. They currently have around 15 members attending, but are interested to hear if anyone would like to attend. Full details can be found at: http://upcoming.yahoo... Scala mixes functional and object-orientated programming together in a language that is expressive and terse and which runs on the JVM. It will be familiar to Java programmers but there is a lot more to this language than just being a lighter version of Java. The London Scala User Group will be meeting up to discuss Scala and this meeting will feature an Introduction to Scala talk by Jamie Webb and a code dojo to get hands on with some code. If you're already using Scala or you're interested in finding out more then please come along. This event is hosted in the ThoughtWorks office but is not organised or run by ThoughtWorks.
I would like to formally announce that JAVAWUG (Java Web User Group) is holding the Thirty Ninth Birds-of-Feather (Meet-up 39) at Skills Matter on Tuesday, 29th July 2008 from 18:30 until 20:15. Title: JavaFX: A RIA Solution to Reinvigorate Your DesktopSpeaker: Peter PilgrimTalkThis talk will be an introductory and overview of the Compiled JavaFXtm, which is Sun Microsystem's attempt to (re-)enter the Rich Internet Area space. JavaFX is competing with the other top two RIA solutions, namely: Microsoft's Silverlight and Adobe Flex. Why should you, as an enterprise software developer, now get into JavaFXtm? * JavaFX is different, because it integrates with Java. You have the freedom to use open source and commercial Java libraries.* The JavaFX Compiler and the Run-time are open source. You can compile and build them yourself. * It has its own declarative language for defining user interface elements instead programming with XML. * JavaFX has a default profile that builds on the Swing components, which is already known to experienced Java SE programmers.* JavaFX can playback video and audio files for the first time ever with the forthcoming Java Media Component (JMC) apis.* AJAX is fine for a lot of applications, but as more richer functionality is required then a true RIA solution may just be your ticket to ride.* The smart trend in computing today is to focus on usability. You cannot develop user interfaces with Middleware solution.* If you have exhausted the possibilities with traditional web framework approach, then RIA might be the way forward. Java was the first platform with a RIA. It was called in 1996 an Applet. This was a fabulous innovation and was the first example of embedding an mini application into a HTML web page. Unfortunately Sun took its eyes off the prize, when Java exploded in popularity on the server side. Much to the chagrin of several early enthusiastic user interface developers, the company invested its limited resources and expertise in enterprise services. There was absolutely no doubt at all that Java is huge on the enterprise. more
***PLEASE NOTE THIS IS AN EVENT BEING ARRANGED AND ORGANISED THROUGH ONE OF OUR PARTNERS. LJMG IS PURELY PROMOTING THE EVENT. PLEASE RSVP AS USUAL.*** Have you heard about REST, JSON, DSL? Are you curious about Jersey, RSpec, Gant, Git and Mercurial? Buzzword Bingo is a chance to catch up on all those buzzwords that are zipping round the development community and hear first-hand experiences of how people are using them. Each Buzzword will have a 15 minute talk and after the talks are over there will be breakout groups to discuss them further or any other burning topics people may have An evening of unreserved futurism where our speakers will hopefully offer you a bite-sized taste of your software futures. After the talks, which will be quite short there will be breakout groups where the audience decide what they would like to follow up on or discuss. Prospective Speakers Dr. Russel Winder on GantCarlos Villela on Pure DataGeorge Malmidis on being a Git Master Full details of the event and venue can be found at this link: http://upcoming.yahoo...
***PLEASE NOTE THIS IS AN EVENT BEING ARRANGED AND ORGANISED THROUGH ONE OF OUR PARTNERS. LJMG IS PURELY PROMOTING THE EVENT. PLEASE RSVP AS USUAL.*** Registration for Flex Camp London 08 is now open! Flex Camp London 08 is a FREE, community-run event for everyone interested in Adobe Flex! Whether you're just getting started with Flex or you're an expert, Flex Camp aims to provide something for you. We've lined up some of the most experienced Flex developers in the UK who will share their knowledge on everything from creating your first application, connecting to data, creating components and development best practices through to selecting an application framework for larger projects. Find out more here
Welcome to the final frontier of computing, the Cloud. The cloud is made up of huge clusters of commodity hardware and Hadoop provides the mean to harness it's power. An Open Source implementation of Map Reduce, written in Java, that allows you to distribute tasks in a fault tolerant way over many, many machines. It takes the infrastructure of Grid Computing out of the way so you can focus on the problem you want to solve. There will be free food and drink and we hope to have enough Virtual Servers running to allow attendees to do some Cloud Computing for real. Have a look at the Wiki page for more information or to ask questions (OpenID login available). To guarantee yourself a place and food please either leave a message on the wiki page or register on the Upcoming Event page. Just RSVP'ing here may not be enough.
The JavaWUG would like to formally announce that JAVAWUG (Java Web User Group) is holding the Fortieth Birds-of-Feather (Meet-up 40) at Skills Matter on Monday, 15th September 2008 from 18:30 until 20:00. Talk JQuantLib is a free, open-source, comprehensive framework for quantitative finance, written in Java, aiming to offer several mathematical and statistical tools needed for valuation of financial instruments like options, bonds and alike. In spite of JQuantLib being based on QuantLib, which is written in C++, it is not intended to be a mere translation from C++ code: it's a rewrite intended to offer features that Java developers read more...
Hi All JAVAWUG is please to announce BOF 41 "Web Applications and RESTful Services'' with Daniel Silva and Louis Emmett. This event will taking place at Skills Matter, London on Monday 20th October 2008 from 6:30pm- 8:15pm. TALK: Web Applications Today and TomorrowSPEAKER: Louis Emmett Web Applications have quickly become common place in many contexts.In this talk we'll take a look back at the core of what Web Applications are, discuss where we are today and consider together what the future holds for developing and delivering systems on the "Programmable Web". # Web Applications Wikipedia Page (http://en.wikipedia.o...)# Programmable Web (http://www.programmab...) TALK: RESTful Services and RESTeasySPEAKER: Daniel Silva REST is becoming an increasingly popular and effective way of delivering Web-based Data Services. With the JAX-RS standard it is now easy for Java developers to develop and deploy REST services. In this talk we'll be looking at the JBoss JAX-RS product (RESTeasy) and showing how you can deliver your first REST application. * JBoss RESTEasy (http://www.jboss.org/...)* JSR-311 (http://jsr311.dev.jav...) For more information, goto http://www.jroller.co... REGISTRATION: Please register with Skills Matter http://skillsmatter.c... http://skillsmatter.c... 1. YOUR FIRST and LAST NAMES2. COMPANY YOU WORK FOR3. optional telephone number
Event: 1 Day Agile Edge ConferenceDate: Tuesday 28th October 2008Venue: Lords Cricket Ground, LondonCost: 175.50 (10% reduction for LJMG members, usual price 195.00) Theres a difference between running an Agile Project and running your organisation in an Agile way. Having an Agile Edge - A transformational, lasting change, driven by metrics which create immediate and long-term value. This must attend event is the first of its kind in London. The seminar will address Agile topics addressing both a technical and business audience. 10% reduction for LJMG members. (To achieve this rate please email Jazz.Sandhu@valtech.co.uk prior to booking) Located within a 10 minute underground journey from central London, the venue is easily accessible from major rail stations such as Paddington, Euston, Waterloo and Marylebone. This seminar is suited to both a technical and business audience: CIO / CTOs CEOs IT Directors/ Managers Change Managers Heads of Software Development Product Managers Project Managers Development Teams Business Analysts The sessions have been designed to address the needs of both attendees with little knowledge of agile, and those looking to further enhance their experience of successful agile teams and development. The programme has been designed to examine Agile topics addressing both a technical and business audience. Agile Teams Adopting Agile Automating Agile practices Agile estimation & planning Effective test driven development Agile Organisation Adopting Agile in the organisation Managing Requirements Measuring for accountability Agile & Lean Strategic Management To view the full agenda please visit http://www.valtech.co...
In response to a request from one of our members, LJMG Organisers Dave and Barry have organised an event on OSGi, here are the details of the presentation, which will be followed by free drinks and discussion at the Crown Tavern. The talk (by Dave Snowdon)OSGi (AKA the Dynamic Module System for Java) specifies a modular approach to Java application development, as well as methods for managing dependencies between modules. It's possible to install, uninstall, start, and stop different modules of an application dynamically without restarting the container. There are a number of open source OSGI container implementations such as Knopflerfish, Equinox, and Apache Felix. It's also possible to build Spring applications that can be deployed in an OSGi container using the Spring Dynamic Modules for OSGi Service Platforms project. In this talk I'll give an introduction to OSGi from the perspective of a web developer. I'll be looking how OSGi might be used in a web application and whether the value added by OSGi outweighs the complexity of adding yet another framework to the application development process. The SpeakerOriginally specialising in distributed multi-user virtual reality systems and applications Dave later spent six years working at Xerox's European research centre working in fields such as information retrieval, human-computer interaction, machine learning and mobile computing. After leaving Xerox he worked as an independent Internet & software consultant for a number of years with clients such as Pete Townshend (of The Who). Dave has edited two books related to collaborative virtual environments and has published over thirty scientific papers. Dave joined Ecube as a lead developer in 2007. VenueSkills Matter (skillsmatter.com) have kindly agreed to sponsor the even by providing the venue. DrinksBarry will be sponsoring drinks at the local pub after the event, we both hope to see you there.
One of our members is organising this free event for the community. LJMG are fully behind it and hope that some of you are interested in showing up. Please visit http://developersands... for registration and more details. Startups need developers.Developers like cool jobs.Let's get together! There's a wide range of startups emerging in London and a great developer community. When the two combine, everybody wins. FREE BAR sponsored by Huddle.net, the unified collaboration platform with a social networking twist. Check out Huddle's API: http://www.huddle.net...Huddle's hiring: http://www.huddle.net... Startups! Find developers experienced with a wide range of tools and platforms and from a variety of backgrounds, including major web properties, agencies, startups and freelancing. Developers! Meet startups creating interesting new businesses run by cool people with the chance to make a name for yourself as the next Mark Zuckerberg, Matt Mullenwegg or Ev Williams. Our startups have money to pay market rate salaries and many will offer equity. The evening will have a roughly equal number of developers and founders networking informally. Some of the skills required/represented: PHP Python, Django Ruby, Rails Java .NET iPhone development Android Ajax HTML/Javascript/CSS MySQL Any and all skills welcome. If you are an experienced developer feeling unchallenged or looking for something with big potential, come along. If you're a startup, we' ve got the developers you're looking for!
I would like to formally announce that JAVAWUG (Java Web User Group) is holding the Forty Second Birds-of-Feather (Meet-up 42) at Skills Matter on Monday, 17th November 2008 from 18:30 until 20:00. TalkJSF 2.0 Preview This talk covers the upcoming 2.0 version of the Java Server Faces Framework which provides many improvements and new features. Whether you are already using JSF or evaluating it for your next project, this talk will keep you updated about the future of J2EE's standard web framework. The talk will cover the following; * Overview of JSF 1.x Framework* Introduction to JSF 2.0* New Featureso Ajax Supporto Easier way of Component Developmento Resource Handlingo New Scopeso PDL(Page Description Language)o System Eventso Scripting Supporto State Managemento Component interoperabilityo Less configurationo And more...Read more...
Cloud Computing is a hot topic right now - it allows even relatively small organisations to run services with very high peak load. Instead of buying and maintaining enough hardware to cope with peak load, organisations can create new virtual server instances as load increases, destroy those instances when load decreases and pay only for the time that the virtual servers were actually used for. This could mean that hosting costs could be only hundreds of dollars/month instead of thousands. Rightscale's blog describes how one of their customers coped with a huge spike in demand for their facebook app: http://blog.rightscal... Contrast this with when iLike's facebook application became successful and the CEO was forced to frantically search for new (physical) servers for their datacenter:http://www.allfaceboo... Amazon and Google are probably the best known providers of virtual servers for cloud computing at the moment. Chris Read will be talking on the on the basic principles of Cloud Computing. He'll then discuss the concepts of Amazon EC2 and Google App Engine, along with some basic examples of each. This will highlight the different approaches each of these companies have taken to implementing services in the cloud. Chris will finish by showing how to actually deploy applications to EC2. About the speaker Chris Read is a Principal Consultant and Infrastructure Specialist at ThoughtWorks Inc., where he helps clients design and implement their production infrastructure, and make the process of deploying their software as painless as possible. He is one of the creators of Buildix: an integrated development environment that helps projects get started quickly. Before joining ThoughtWorks Chris has worked as a System Administrator, Network Administrator and a Developer. Specializing in Unix environments, he uses his experience from both sides of the wall to help administrators and developers realize they're both playing for the same team. Links & more information There are now books introducing Cloud Computing targeted at the layperson, for example:"The Big Switch Our New Digital Destiny" by Nicholas Carrhttp://www.amazon.co.... More on Amazon EC2http://en.wikipedia.o...http://www.amazon.com... More on Google App Enginehttp://en.wikipedia.o...http://code.google.co...
This is being organised by the JavaWUG. SORRY ITS LATE!!! In this final BOF of 2008 and before the holiday season begins in ernest, we are going to do something slightly different this year. This month we are turning the event over to an "Open Mike" session. You can volunteer to talk about any related Java Virtual Machine technology for up to 15 minutes or general software architecture and practice. You must submit your talk to the organisers before the event. All you will need is a laptop with DVI connection to a projector, dutch courage and, most importantly, passion to deliver. If you struggling for ideas about this concept, open your mind to few examples. A short talk on agile development in your organisation is a good idea of a talk that falls inside software architecture and practice. An very brief introduction to another JVM language, such as JRuby, Groovy or even Scala, would be fantastic. On the other hand a presentation about only DotNet would be unwelcomed, but a reasonable talk could be about the integration of Java Mash Ups with DotNet through web services. Caveat Emptor. We are going to limit the time of each talk to strictly 15 minutes and we have room for four or five slots. In summary, you can talk about:* A technology that runs on the JVM or* Software architecture and practice in your organisation
ClueSwap is about giving and receiving Clue. Think of one thing you would like to learn about. Think of one thing that you could teach someone else. Those two pieces of information are all you need to attend ClueSwap. Rather like an Eighties Children's TV show we will be putting together what people want to learn about with people who can teach it (or at least explain it and share the war stories). Think of it as Open Spaces Learning. To try and get organised it would be great if you would visit the wiki page below and post some ideas about the Clue you're interested in (OpenId login required). ClueSwap Wiki Page
In this session we're going to take a look at the Java build process. Rather than a single presentation we're going for a panel format this time with 4 speakers each covering a different aspect of the build process. Each speaker will talk for about 10 minutes and have about 5 minutes for questions and then after all the talks we'll open the floor for general discussion. Our aim is to allow some comparison between competing tools such as ant & maven and allow you to share your experience of best practices related to building java software. The Speakers * Ant - Campbell Wilson* maven - Martijn Verburg / Michael McCarthy* Antelope - Dare Famuyiwa* Gant & Hudson - Robert Rees Links * Ant - http://ant.apache.org/* Maven - http://maven.apache.org/* Antelope - http://antelope.tigris.org/* Gant - http://gant.codehaus.org/* Hudson - https://hudson.dev.java.net/
From Barry... This time we are promoting an event from another User Group - The JavaWUG. We have promoted many of their presentations and as you can see from previous comments they are always well regarded. Here are the details for their latest event. JAVAWUG is please to announce BOF 44 ``JAVAWUG BOF 44 QCon Special Building Twitter with Grails in 40 Minutes'' with Graeme Rocher of SpringSource. This very special event will be taking place at Skills Matter, London on Wednesday 28th January 2009 from 6:30pm - 8:45pm. TALK: Building Twitter with Grails in 40 MinutesSPEAKER: Graeme Rocher In this session Graeme Rocher, the project lead of Grails, will demonstrate how the basics of Twitter could have been built using Grails and JMS in a mere 40 minutes. A fast paced and code-driven presentation, Graeme will build a Twitter-like application from scratch using Grails and its rapid application development capability. For more information, goto http://www.jroller.co...
Please visit http://skillsmatter.com/event/java-jee/london-java-community-february to register your attendance and guarantee yourself a seat. Last month at our Build Process Meetup we hosted a session in which we introduced and discussed tools such as Ant, Maven, Antelope, Gant and Hudson. We concluded the event with a general discussion. It was a great success and many people indicated that they wished there had been more time to continue the discussion. On 18th February Chris Read will host a discussion about build practices and patterns. Chris will talk informally about his experiences and views on build best practices and then we'll open the floor to discuss the points raised by Chris and anything else related to the practice of building software. About the speakerChris Read is a Principal Consultant and Infrastructure Specialist at ThoughtWorks Inc., where he helps clients design and implement their production infrastructure, and make the process of deploying their software as painless as possible. He is one of the creators of Buildix: an integrated development environment that helps projects get started quickly. Before joining ThoughtWorks Chris has worked as a System Administrator, Network Administrator and a Developer. Specializing in Unix environments, he uses his experience from both sides of the wall to help administrators and developers realize they're both playing for the same team. LocationAfter the presentation we can retire to the Crown Tavern for further technical discussion and networking. It is imperative that you visit the Skills Matter website to confirm your entry after RSVP'ing on this site. The direct link is: http://skillsmatter.com/event/java-jee/london-java-community-february The location will be provided after registering with Skills Matter.
Ola Bini is the creator of the language Ioke, a lead implementer of JRuby and, in short, a man who knows a lot about implementing languages on top of the JVM. Tonight he is going to share his experiences and guide us through the most interesting features of both his own message passing language Ioke and JRuby. As the Java world transistions from being a language to being a platform for many languages, questions about how to support and develop new languages on top of the JVM and how to manage the evolution of the JVM are going to become increasingly important. The Geek Night Wiki Page has more information.
This is a London Java Community event organised at the request of our members. Please visit http://skillsmatter.c... to register your attendance and guarantee yourself a seat. Clojure (http://clojure.org...) is a dynamic functional programming language for the JVM. This talk will provide an overview of Clojure, including a gentle introduction to its syntax for those with no prior experience with Lisp, an overview of features, and a discussion of Java integration. Also covered will be Clojure's approach to functional programming, immutability, and concurrency and how they help solve some of the problems faced by Java programmers using threads and locks today. About the speaker: Rich Hickey, the author of Clojure, is an independent software designer, consultant and application architect with over 20 years of experience in all facets of software development. Rich has worked on scheduling systems, broadcast automation, audio analysis and fingerprinting, database design, yield management, exit poll systems, and machine listening, in a variety of languages. After the presentation we can retire to the Crown Tavern for further technical discussion and networking. It is imperative that you visit the Skills Matter website to confirm your entry after RSVP'ing on this site. The direct link is: http://skillsmatter.c... The location will be provided after registering with Skills Matter.
Please note that this is NOT an official London Java Community meeting and comes from another London based Java User Group: JAVAWUG. They are well established and have a very big presence in London and always run superb presentations: If you would like to RSVP - it is imperative that you RSVP through the SkillsMatter website: http://skillsmatter.c... The following comes from the JAVAWUG leader Peter Pilgrim: I would like to formally announce that JAVAWUG (Java Web User Group) is holding the Forty Sixth Birds-of-Feather (Meet-up 46) at Skills Matter on Monday, 16th March 2009 from 18:30 until 20:15.Featuring fellow Java Champion, Stephen Colebourne. TALK Fan is a new language for the JVM that aims to be an evolution in language design, not a revolution. It is statically typed and performs at native speed, yet has the ability to operate more like a dynamic language when you need it. I really like it, and believe its the closest I've seen to what 'Java - Next Generation' should be.A key goal has been to fix many of the problems that have been identified in Java over the last 15 years. Fan is fully object oriented, has closures (but is not heavily functional ), a syntax familiar to Java/C# developers, mixins , built-in immutables and no shared mutable state.Fan also has some really interesting features that set it aside from other languages. To find out more, and to understand where Fan fits compared to Groovy , Scala and JRuby , come along on the 16th! http://fandev.org/... The Fan Language For more info http://jroller.com/ja... BIOGRAPHY Who is the speaker? What does he or she do? Explain credibility. * Leading member of the Fan community* Regular contributor to Java language change debate* Conference speaker* Co-author, FCM closures* Co-spec lead, JSR-310, Date and Time API* Project lead, Joda-Time* http://jroller.com/sc... REGISTRATION Go to Skills Matter http://skillsmatter.c... Peter PilgrimJava Web User Grouphttp://jroller.com/ja... A WORD ABOUT JAVA CHAMPIONS A word about the Java Champions program (https://java-...champions.dev.java.net/) "The concept behind Java Champions is to build an informal but select group of passionate Java technology and community people outside of Sun [Microsystems].Java Champions are invited [by Sun Microsystems] to engage in meaningfuldiscussion(s) about the state of the Java platform and its Eco-System with Sun's Java Development team." In other words, an individual has to be invited by their peers to become a Java Champion.Usually the invitation comes from another JC to be considered. One cannot simply elect themselves.Finally, a candidate Java Champion has to be endorsed by Sun Microsystems, specifically the Outreach team. This is a similar to a ``Microsoft Most Valued Professional'' (http://mvp.support.mi...)unless he or she is sanctioned by Microsoft, then a Microsoft MVP is not for real.Someone calling themselves a ``Java Champion'' is not real unless there have been sanctioned by Sun Microsystems. Members should come from a broad cross-section of the Java community: * Java Luminaries; senior developers; architects; consultants; JCP members; etc* Academics/University Professors* Authors of Java-related content (online & print) and industry conference speakers* Community leaders: Java User Group (JUG) Leaders and the Leaders of online Java portals* Individuals can be for or against or political neutral in their opinion about Sun Microsystems The public JC list is here https://java-champion... It is imperative that you RSVP through the SkillsMatter website: http://skillsmatter.c...
Please access this site to register for the event to guarantee your seat: http://skillsmatter.c... Software without (so many) tears. Techniques for dealing with difficult conversations and negotiations in software development. Why is it so difficult to talk to customers? Why do managers often end up making unrealistic demands on developers and encouraging them to make promises that they can't keep? Why do so many software projects end up in angry exchanges of accusation and counter accusation? Can any of this be explained? Can anything be done to make it better? Researchers at the "Harvard Negotiation Project" claim that a great deal can be done to make things better. By understanding the structure of "difficult conversations" we can be made aware of the various points at which things can go badly wrong and sometimes avoid them. By understanding our own contribution to the problem we can adopt strategies that give us a chance to actually improve a situation. Using as examples a particularly "difficult" conversation about the development of a website that I overheard in a cafe, and my own experiences in developing software over the last 15 years, I'd like to explore how understanding the nature of "difficult conversations" and some other basic negotiation strategies can help anybody involved in the business of developing software. Suitable for anybody involved in the process of developing, managing or commissioning software. About the speaker: Mark Stringer is a trainer, coach and consultant in the use of Agile methods. He's particularly interested in exploring project management methods that emphasise the human nature of project management, because he thinks they might actually work. Please access this site to register for the event to guarantee your seat: http://skillsmatter.c...
This presentation is being organised by the Spring User Group to be guaranteed a seat please RSVP at this link: http://skillsmatter.c... When Spring Projects met Grails - Bringing Killer New Features to Grails with Grails Plugins and the Spring Portfolio This talk by Russ Miles, Senior Consultant at SpringSource, takes a deep dive through how to bring the Spring projects that you already know into the Grails plugin ecosystem, developing killer productivity enhancing conventions along the way. Russ recently wrote a popular blog entry[1] that described how to take advantage of existing Spring Integration code in a Grails environment, but that blog entry was really just the tip of the iceberg. In this talk Russ will take us through what happened next, imparting best practices and lessons learned as Spring expert experience was applied to creating a new foundation of convention-rich Grails plugins. Russ Miles Russ Miles is a senior consultant for SpringSource in the UK where he works with various companies to help them take full advantage of the Spring Framework. To ensure that he has as little spare time as possible, Russ contributes to various open source projects and has authored a number of books. Russ is a keen contributor to open source projects and an author for O'Reilly Media. He has authored and co-authored 3 books; "AspectJ Cookbook", "Learning UML 2.0" and "Head First Software Development" Prior to joining SpringSource, Russ gained experience of enterprise development throughout all tiers of application architecture including high performance and usability presentation tier services for the Search and Mobile Portal industries right through to maximum availability application and data services for the Defence industry. Russ holds an MSc. Software Engineering from Oxford University. This presentation is being organised by the Spring User Group to be guaranteed a seat please RSVP at this link: http://skillsmatter.c...
Groovy for Java Developers: Groovy Programming and why Java Programmers will love it Seating for this event is limited so it is imperative that after RSVPing through Meetup you access the SkillsMatter site to confirm your place at our venue http://skillsmatter.c... Groovy is a dynamic language and hence is in the same camp as Smalltalk, Python, Ruby, Lisp, etc. However unlike these other language, Groovy was designed from the outset to be the symbiotic partner of Java: Groovy and Java work together seamlessly. (OK there are a few places where you have to be a little careful, but few people ever get into those dark corners.) This session is an introduction to Groovy aimed at people who are Java programmers or at least have done some Java programming, though anyone who knows programming is welcome and will learn something to their advantage. The session will be an interactive "learn in", i.e. this is not going to be a presentation based around a long (albeit interesting) sequence of static slides. Instead, the session will be completely dynamically bound. The session will start with one slide (for corporate advertising purposes) and then will be based entirely on writing Groovy code live. Or it may be different. About Russel Winder: Dr Russel Winder is a freelance consultant, analyst, author and trainer who has been involved with the Groovy project since 2004. In the latter part of 2006, Russel wrote the first version of Gant, which he has been evolving and improving since. Recently, Russel has started a new partnership, Concertant LLP, which is focused on issues of parallelism in the (brave?) new world of pervasive multi-core processors. Russel is author of Developing C++ Software (Wiley professional computing)", of Developing Java Software (Second Edition), and co-author of the recently published Python for Rookies, Russel started as a theoretical physicist investigating heavy quark flavour production in hadronic processes, but soon switched to computing as it was more fun than physics. In 1980 he became a UNIX systems programmer -- so when it was fun! This led to a growing fascination with the human aspects of programming so Russel became an academic again (at UCL) teaching programming and human--computer interaction, and researching parallel programming languages and the programming process. He went on to become Professor of Computing Science and Head of Department at KCL. In 2000, Russel left academia to become CTO of a 'start up' building a JVM implementation for systems with ridiculously small resources. Just as product was ready for market, the funders pulled out, so, sadly, that all ended. Russel worked as a freelance consultant, analyst, author and trainer until starting Concertant. Seating for this event is limited so it is imperative that after RSVPing through Meetup you access the SkillsMatter site to confirm your place at our venue http://skillsmatter.c...
Please RSVP here to avoid dissappointment - http://skillsmatter.c... Hello everyone, Our latest Meetup is aimed at both beginners to agile, and to those more experienced with Agile and XP. Newcomers will gain a useful understanding of the processes mechanics and some of the real world issues they may face in adoption. More experienced agile practitioners will learn about the game and how to run it in their own companies - a full downloadable pack will be available at the time of the conference. During a number of iterations, attendees will be introduced to many of the agile principles and how they are implemented in XP. Inspired by the original XP Game, the Lego XP game attempts to do away with the discrete tasks such as rolling dice or making paper hats, and instead attempts to use lego as an analogue for a piece of software. No programming experience is required - the session is strongly recommended to all attendees - managers, customers, QAs, analysts and developers alike. Seats will be limited for this game so please RSVP at http://skillsmatter.c...
Important: although you can say you are interested in coming at the Meetup group Skillsmatter are handling the attendance for this event. Sign up at this link to guarantee your place Skillsmatter registration page. Ever since Google made App Engine available to the public the number one request has been for Java support. Finally Google have obliged and opened GAE/J (Google App Engine for Java or "Gay-Jay") to public beta. Unlike Amazon's cloud services GAE/J is based around a deployable application as the basic unit. You create your WAR, deploy it to Google's cloud infrastructure and Google publish it to the world and make it scale. Tonight's Geek Night will be looking at a whole range of questions you might have about GAE/J. What does the cloud mean? What can it give me above deploying my own applications? Will Google own my data? How will I need to change my application to take advantage of GAE/J's features? How will it fit in with my existing applications? Can I use my favourite framework? Can I use all these hot new JVM languages and dynamic web frameworks? That is whole lot of good questions and we've found the right people to answer them. Chris Read is a build and deployment specialist at ThoughtWorks who has been talking about Cloud technologies in general and has been working with a range of different Cloud services and software. Chris will give us the potted history of how we arrived at Cloud Computing when so many similar initiatives failed to take off. He will also outline what makes GAE/J different from other Cloud technologies. Ola Bini is a core contributor to JRuby and was involved in the early partner testing of the GAE/J framework. He helped Google bring JRuby to the new platform and on the day of the launch published a series of blog posts explaining the challenges faced getting dynamic languages working on GAE/J and how to build and deploy your own JRuby on Rails application to the cloud. While getting your first Java application working on GAE/J will probably only take you ten minutes Ola will explain some of the differences you need to take into account between regular Java Web development and development on GAE/J. He will also look at how GAE/J and JRuby allows you combine the power of GAE with the pleasure of Ruby programming. Of course the final element of any Geek Night is you, we need your questions (and your experiences with GAE/J if you have been one of the lucky 10,000 to get the early access account). So please join us for a night in the Java Cloud courtesy of Google App Engine.
The Skillsmatter registration page for this event. To coincide with the release of Ioke E which brings Java integration to Ioke, Ioke's creator Ola Bini will be presenting an introduction to Ioke, the expressive folding language that is inspired by Smalltalk, Ruby and IO. Ioke runs on top of the JVM, has prototype based object orientation and a very small core. It a dynamic language that allows runtime manipulation of code but it is also an extreme experiment in trying to create a language as powerful as Lisp but whose source code is easily read, understood and written and which is as much fun to write in as Ruby. Ola will be giving an introduction to Ioke and an explanation as to why he wrote it and what he regards as being Ioke's unique features. There will also be an update on where Ioke is and where it is going before some specific examples of how you can start writing Ioke for yourself. If you attended Ola's previous talk on Languages on the JVM then the difference between that talk and this one is that Ioke now has Java integration and is also available on the .Net platform. This talk will focus on introducing and writing code in Ioke whereas the previous talk only used Ioke to illustrate language implementation options.
Important: although you can say you are interested in coming at the Meetup group Skillsmatter are handling the attendance for this event. Sign up at this link to guarantee your place Skillsmatter registration page. Open Source has become an increasingly important methodology for developing software, it can deliver business, technical and social advantages to what is an incredibly difficult discipline. However, many developers and organisations fall into the trap of assuming that just releasing the source code makes for a successful Open Source Project. Sadly, a vast majority of Open Source projects do fail due to this simplistic view of what is required. This talk will hopefully help others avoid that pitfall by covering the various aspects of how to run a successful Open Source project, including: * Getting started (Choosing your project name, Mission Statement, etc)* Setting up your technical, social and political infrastructure* Money* Communications* Packaging, Releasing and Daily Development* Managing your volunteers* Licensing, Patents and Copyright Martijn also hopes at the end of the talk to have a beer in the pub with you all afterwards! -------------- Martijn Verburg is a traveller and software consultant who has participated in a number of successful and unsuccessful Open Source projects, he is currently the Chair Person for a large and active Open Source project and has some insights and war stories to share.
This meetup follows on from recent 'How to run a Successful Open Source project' talk. Due to a large amount of interest on the licensing and legal aspects of Open Source projects, the London Java Community is putting on an extra meetup for those who need guidance in this murky arena! ********IMPORTANT READ ME********** SkillsMatter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: http://skillsmatter.c... failure to do so may result in not obtaining a seat. The format of the event will involve a short presentation and then an 'Open Floor' style of discussion with a panel of experts including an IP/Software Patent Lawyer, a member of the Apache Software Foundation and a couple of project leads who have some war stories to tell. Our Panel: Martijn Verburg - A traveller and software consultant who has participated in a number of successful and unsuccessful Open Source projects, he is currently the Chair Person for a large and active Open Source project and has some insights and war stories to share. Paul Fremantle - Chief Technology Officer and Co-Founder of WSO2, a leading provider of Open Source software and one of the few companies to have a pure Open Source approach based on the Apache License. Paul is a VP, Member, and Committer at Apache where he has been involved since the late 90s. Previously Paul was a Senior Technical Staff Member at IBM, where he was responsible for several Open Source projects as well as the IBM WebSphere WebServices Gateway product. Gerard Chandrahasen - Gerard Chandrahasen - A Lawyer hailing from New Zealand who specialises in IP and Software Patent law. Gerard is one of the very few Lawyers who actually holds a Computer Science degree as well as his legal qualifications and immensely enjoys the technical content of his work. He is also known to whip up some excellent Thai dishes when guests come calling. Kevin Garwood - Kevin Garwood has spent much of the last decade as a Java developer working on scientific computing projects in areas of high energy physics, immunology, molecular biology and epidemiology. His interest in developing open source software began in 1998 when he sought to build a suite of free tools that would allow shamen to record and replay medicinal plant concoctions. His interest in intellectual property ethics related to traditional medicine and genetic resources led him into the field of bioinformatics. In the research realm, he managed to have ideas formally excluded from the IP of the past two research organisations he worked for. He is the main developer and co-manager of Project35 and Project37. 2008 he took time out from both academia and industry to spend time developing the software. His interests in open source licenses are driven by humanitarian more than commercial interests. His exposure to licensing issues relates mainly to Academic Free License and some of GPL. He has also seen how licensing issues effects technology transfer in research institutions. Gerry Gavigan - Chair of the Open Source Consortium, a volunteer role promoting the importance of Free and Open Source Software (FOSS) in a society dependent upon ICT. In this capacity, he uses his background as a Chartered Engineer and strategy consultant to raise awareness of FOSS outside the ICT community, identify the non-technical barriers which obstruct its deploymentand work on their removal. (http://uk.geocities.c...)(http://www.project35s..., http://www.project35s...) SkillsMatter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: http://skillsmatter.c... failure to do so may result in not obtaining a seat.
The re-run of the excellent Java on the Google Cloud event has now been scheduled and you can sign up via Skillsmater. I'm not going to sell this event too much, it's a great look at the detail of Java on Google App Engine but also tries to give an overview of the subject of Cloud Computing that is vendor neutral and based on practical experience. The original event was subscribed twice over so it is first come first served. Signing up via Meetup is NOT enough the Skillsmatter link is: http://skillsmatter.com/event/java-jee/london-geek-nightjava-in-the-google-cloud-419
Miles Sabin will be giving a talk about what is coming in the Scala 2.8 release and also the latest news and roadmap for the Scala Eclipse plugin that he maintains. Scala is a hugely exciting language for Java developers (in my view it could be thought of as Java3), it tries to mix functional and object-orientated paradigms and ticks many a box on a Java developer's wishlist. 2.8 contains some big updates to the language ecosystem and represents a logical jumping on point for the language. Miles is Scala consultant who has practical experience of bringing Scala to a Java shop and combining existing Java code bases with new Scala development. This event is being organised by the London Scala User Group.
Clojure is a JVM language that has syntatically similarities to LISP, full integration with Java and its libraries and focuses on providing a solution to the issue of single machine concurrency. Its small core makes it surprisingly easy for Java developers to pick up and it provides a powerful set of concurrency strategies and data structures designed to make immutable data easy to work with. If you went to Rich Hickey's LJC talk about creating Clojure you'll already know this, if not it's well worth watching the Skillsmatter videos. The goal of the session is to help people learn to start working with Clojure but we hope that more experienced developers will also come along to help form a bit of a London Clojure community within the wider Java group.
Android is the mobile platform created by Google to provide an open platform for mobile development. What you might not know is that the development language for Android is pretty much the Java you already know. There is an Eclipse plugin the provides a phone emulator and IDE support so you only need to learn about the Android libraries and you should be good to create your first mobile application. Ever since the introduction of the iPhone and its attendant Application marketplace perceptions of what kind of software a mobile can run are changing. No more weedy "mobile enabled websites" instead web enabled applications that are constantly available, ground breaking touch interfaces and slick graphic interfaces. Getting your idea to the masses is easier than ever and there are more mobiles in circulation than PCs, game consoles or any other kind of computing platform. Whatever happens to Java in the web and server side, a whole new area has opened up to Java developers in the mobile space. Reto Meier has agreed to give a talk aimed at getting Java developers over the first hurdle of learning about the Android API and helping people to avoid the pitfalls of developing for the embedded space. He will also hopefully have time to introduce the Android Cupcake update that brings features like touch sensitive-screens to the platform. You can submit your questions ahead of time at the talk's Moderator space and Reto will endeavour to either cover it on the talk or direct you to further resources. Note that this is a rescheduling of the earlier talk we had on the subject except that it will now be at Google and Reto is now an Android Advocate who works for Google.
!!IMPORTANT!! Although you can say you are interested in coming at the Meetup group Skillsmatter are handling the attendance for this event. Sign up at this link to guarantee your place: http://skillsmatter.c... Jan will give a talk on Spring MVC; he will explain the principles of the MVC architecture and show how the main components in the Spring Framework. You will see how to create a Spring MVC web application, including support for REST. We will explore how to create Spring MVC controllers, views and how to prepare the models while keeping the application's source code as independent from Spring MVC as possible. At the end of Jan's talk, you will know how to create Spring MVC web applications that make the most of the latest features in the Spring Framework. You'll get most from Jans talk if you know the fundamentals of Java and understand principles of Java web applications. Ideally, you'll also be aware of the dependency injection design pattern and you'll have tried out the Spring Framework. About the speaker: Jan is the Chief Architect at Cake Solutions Ltd. Since joining Cake almost 6 years ago, Jan has proven his expertise in both Java and the Spring Framework not only by taking on a wide variety of highly complex projects but also through his collection of published works covering a number of topics. Jans role as Chief Architect sees him at the centre of all major projects in Cake. In particular, Jan is often called upon to work on some of the most complex and challenging aspects of a system. Jan has presented at a number of conferences including SpringOne. Jan is currently working on the Spring Modules project, which is an extension to the open source Spring Framework project. He is particularly involved in the JSR-94 support, the MVC module along with contributions to the service orchestration module. !!IMPORTANT!! Although you can say you are interested in coming at the Meetup group Skillsmatter are handling the attendance for this event. Sign up at this link to guarantee your place: http://skillsmatter.c...
****THIS IS NOT A PRESENTATION. IT IS A CHANCE TO WORK / CHAT WITH OTHER DEVELOPERS IN A SLIGHTLY UNIQUE SPACE***** One of our members, David F. Flanders, has been given the large upper hall of the University of London Student Union in Bloomsbury (WC1E 7HY) and would like to turn it over to LJC as a large open space to do with as we please (he works for a NGO called JISC whose remit includes encouraging dev communities <- they are giving the hall in the morning to the Apache community who don't need it in the afternoon). David -as a developer himself- thought it may be a good opportunity to open up the room to any developers who want to just do their daily grind in a different venue than their desk (ideally with a bunch of other developers doing likewise), obviously we hope some impromptu discussion will occur throughout the afternoon (and well into the night)? There is no catch and no talks to sit through, just show up and do your thing and we'll see what happens from there. JISC will provide the usual spread of candy, cola and caffeine throughout the afternoon free of charge. In short, David thought it would be nice way to break up the long coding week! A kind of Javathon if you will. I will be on site for a few hours too so will see you there if you fancy it.
This event is being repeated due to popular demand.... Jan will give a talk on Spring MVC; he will explain the principles of the MVC architecture and show how the main components in the Spring Framework. You will see how to create a Spring MVC web application, including support for REST. We will explore how to create Spring MVC controllers, views and how to prepare the models while keeping the application's source code as independent from Spring MVC as possible. At the end of Jan's talk, you will know how to create Spring MVC web applications that make the most of the latest features in the Spring Framework. You'll get most from Jans talk if you know the fundamentals of Java and understand principles of Java web applications. Ideally, you'll also be aware of the dependency injection design pattern and you'll have tried out the Spring Framework. About the speaker: Jan is the Chief Architect at Cake Solutions Ltd. Since joining Cake almost 6 years ago, Jan has proven his expertise in both Java and the Spring Framework not only by taking on a wide variety of highly complex projects but also through his collection of published works covering a number of topics. Jans role as Chief Architect sees him at the centre of all major projects in Cake. In particular, Jan is often called upon to work on some of the most complex and challenging aspects of a system. Jan has presented at a number of conferences including SpringOne. Jan is currently working on the Spring Modules project, which is an extension to the open source Spring Framework project. He is particularly involved in the JSR-94 support, the MVC module along with contributions to the service orchestration module. Location: It's in room 1.03 of the Malet Place Engineering Building, which is in square C5 of this map: http://www.ucl.ac.uk/... The entrance is just off Torrington Place, opposite the large Waterstone's. Nearest tubes: Goodge Street, Russell Square, Euston Square. There is a security guard's office just on the corner, by the car barrier, so please ask there if you need directions.
This is the second Clojure dojo, go to the GitHub project (clone url: git://github.com/rrees/clj-ga-salesman.git) for details of the problem. There were a few worries that it might be way in advance of the skills available, fear not: the goal is to try and learn, not try and succeed. Go here to find out more about Clojure. It's a LISP on the JVM. I promise not to indent this time :))))))
Have you got something interesting to say about Java? Want to talk to other people with similar interests? The London Java Community are pleased to announce that their first 'unconference' will run on Saturday November the 28th 2009. The venue will be IBM's Southbank location http://www-05.ibm.com.... What is an unconference? It is defined on Wikipedia as a "facilitated, participant-driven conference centered around a theme or purpose" http://en.wikipedia.o... Our theme will be Java.... We know that Java is a fairly broad subject area - but we didn't want to limit creativity by narrowing the scope. This leaves people free to talk on the Java language, Spring, Hibernate, Open Source and Java, OSGi, perhaps even JVM languages, anything Java that you want.... As is traditional with this type of event, the content will be provided by the audience. To help us ensure that we have enough conference rooms, we are asking you to indicate whether or not you intend to speak at the event. We are also charging a small fee to attend - this is simply to cover costs (lunch, coffees etc), the aim is to break even on the event. Any profit will be put behind the bar after the event. Thanks to a LJC member Zoe Slattery and our own Martijn Verburg for the organising of this.
JetBrains are going to be in town on Friday and giving a demo and Q&A about their latest release: RubyMine 2.0 (the Ruby IDE based on IntelliJ). We'll also be talking about other upcoming releases and things like YouTrack their new issue tracking system. JetBrains are probably best known in the Java world for their Intellij IDE (version 9 due soon!) which has a very fanatical following but their TeamCity CI product is also very popular with Java shops. If you fancy having a chat with JetBrains please sign up and come along. Free beer and pizza as usual, read the directions if this your first time coming to visit us.
With a new year approaching the London Java Community and Graduate Development Community are coming together to introduce a new monthly event. Every third Tuesday of the month there will be a Meetup in the Lvpo bar in Soho (http://www.lvpo.co.uk...) after work where members both junior and senior can join up in a relaxed atmosphere and set the development world to rights. This is just a chance to come along and meet and chat with other members of the London Technical Community. I'll be onsite so if anyone is looking for recruitment advice it's a great chance to come along for a chat. Our first event will be on Tuesday 19th January we have booked the Back Bar of the venue.
The final content of the dojo exercise is still to be decided but there will be a talk on the Clojure build tool Leiningen. Join us on Google Wave to discuss the event.
RIAs with Java, Spring, Hibernate, BlazeDS, and Flex Java developers want to use what they already know to build great software.Rich Internet Applications allow us to build better software but with many of the options out there developers have to replace what they know with a new software stack. This session will help you learn how to use what you already know to begin building RIAs. For those new to Flex the session it will cover the basics of connecting a Flex application to a Java back-end powered by Spring and Hibernate. There will be tons of code aimed at those looking to make the move to RIA. As usual we will find a suitable bar to frequent after the presentation for a free sponsored drink from myself (Barry Cranford). James Ward is a Technical Evangelist for Flex at Adobe and Adobes JCP representative to JSR 286, 299, and 301. Much like his love for climbing mountains he enjoys programming because it provides endless new discoveries, elegant workarounds, summits and valleys. His adventures in climbing have taken him many places. Likewise, technology has brought him many adventures, including: Pascal and Assembly back in the early 90s; Perl, HTML, and JavaScript in the mid 90s; then Java and many of its frameworks beginning in the late 90s. Today he primarily uses Flex to build beautiful front-ends for Java based back-ends. Prior to Adobe, James built a rich marketing and customer service portal for Pillar Data Systems. Thanks to UCL's Andy Clegg for organising the venue. It is in square E2 on this map: http://www.ucl.ac.uk/... The nearest tube is Euston.
This is a recurring monthly event which incorporates members of The London Java Community and Graduate Development Communities. The third Tuesday of every month we Meetup in a private room at the Lvpo bar in Soho (http://www.lvpo.co.uk...) after work where members both junior and senior can join up in a relaxed atmosphere and set the development world to rights. Free platters of food will be provided and we have negotiated a happy hour for the duration of the evening. This is just a chance to come along and meet and chat with other members of the London Technical Community. It is a great chance to meet other developers and has attracted a large variety of skill levels. I'll also be onsite so if anyone is looking for free recruitment advice it's a great chance to come along for a chat. Our first event was on January 19th we attracted over 50 people hoping to get even higher numbers this time.
No agenda as yet, you can discuss it on Wave. Expect a small talk and some coding.
For our March event we have two presentations based on Java Server Faces (JSF), followed by a sponsored drink at the local see the information below for full details. ********IMPORTANT ********** SkillsMatter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: http://skillsmatter.c... Integrating JSF with Spring Web Flow - Karl Widmer Karl Widmer will speak about Spring Web Flow including what it is and its advantages. He will go on to discuss the integration of JSF using Spring Faces & third Party JSF Components like Icefaces/Richfaces with with Spring Web Flow and the advantages of doing so. Finally he will look at how this framework stack works in the Real World with some example code and an application showing 'HOW IT WORKS'. BIO: Karl has been involved with using J2EE for 10 years as a Contract/Consultant. Over that period Karl has established skills across the J2EE System Lifecycle whether as a Consultant, Designer, Team Leader or Senior Engineer. To name a few of these skills include JSF, Spring, Struts, SOA, Oracle. Having worked for several blue chip companies and successfully integrated New J2EE Technology Stacks into his client's sites. He has provided J2EE Staff training to his client's and his client's utilize his knowledge to interview and recommend resources. PrimeFaces: Next Generation JSF Component Suite Cagatay Civici PrimeFaces is an open source library for JSF with 60+ rich set of UI components and a lightweight Ajax framework making complex RIA applications a no-brainer to implement. Additional TouchFaces subproject provides a mobile UI kit for developing iPhone applications with JSF and Java. This talk covers everything about PrimeFaces family and it's subprojects featuring UI Components, Ajax Push, Mobile Application Development with JSF, tracing and more. BIO: Cagatay Civici is a member of JavaServer Faces Expert Group, the founder and project lead of popular PrimeFaces Component Suite, PMC member of open source JSF implementation Apache MyFaces and committer of Atmosphere Ajax Push/Comet Framework. Hes a recognized speaker in international conferences including JSFSummit, JSFDays and many local events such as JUGs. Cagatay is also an author and technical reviewer of several books regarding web application development with Java and JSF. As an experienced trainer, he has trained over 75 java developers on Java EE technologies mainly JSF, Spring, Seam and JPA. Cagatay is currently working as a consultant, mentor and instructor in the UK. ********IMPORTANT ********** SkillsMatter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: http://skillsmatter.c...
This is our monthly social event which incorporates members of The London Java Community and Graduate Development Communities. We meet in the evening on the third Tuesday of every month in a private room at the Lvpo bar in Soho (http://www.lvpo.co.uk.... We usually attract at least 50 members so it is a lively event in which members both junior and senior can connect in a relaxed atmosphere and set the development world to rights. Free platters of food will be provided and we have negotiated a happy hour for the duration of the evening. This is a chance to come along and meet and chat with other members of the London Technical Community. It is a great chance to meet other developers and has attracted members of all levels, I'll also be onsite so if anyone is looking for free recruitment advice it's a great chance to come along for a chat. It is interesting to note that between the LJC and GDC we have a vast community of over 1200 people including: - Senior technical architects/CTOs - Specialists in various technologies - Open Source Project Leaders - Entrepreneurs & Startup owners - Technology creators - Developers from a vast range of industries With this in mind I thought I would put an extra spin on our social events. If there is anything you would love to speak to a specialist about let me know in advance and Ill try to find someone that I can introduce you to. PLEASE NOTE this is not a recruitment effort, moreover a chance to meet a mentor or specialist that may be able to offer support/guidance in a particular area. So if there is something that you would like to find out about let me know either complete the questions upon signing up to the event or just send me an e-mail with 'Introduction' in the subject title and I will endeavor to make an introduction (e.g. something on the list below): - Coding problems around a specific technology - Recently graduated and looking for someone to give you industry advice - Want to find out how to break into finance or contracting - Interested to try a new language and want someone to suggest some good books - Career / CV / Recruitment advice - Looking for help for an open source project OR looking for an open source project and want advice on one to join - Started interviewing people but want to discuss some new techniques - Just new to London and want to meet some people with similar interests Whatever your question just let me know. DISCLAIMER: As this is a free service its something I cant guarantee but where possible Ill do what I can to connect you with people that can help for you to meet at the pub.
In all likelihood we will continue working on our text adventure game Clork. The code is here: http://github.com/otf... The london-clojurians email list is here: http://groups.google.... The google wave for this event is here: https://wave.google.c... Clojure is a JVM language that has syntatically similarities to LISP, full integration with Java and its libraries and focuses on providing a solution to the issue of single machine concurrency. Its small core makes it surprisingly easy for Java developers to pick up and it provides a powerful set of concurrency strategies and data structures designed to make immutable data easy to work with. If you went to Rich Hickey's LJC talk about creating Clojure you'll already know this, if not it's well worth watching the Skillsmatter videos. http://skillsmatter.c... The goal of the session is to help people learn to start working with Clojure but we hope that more experienced developers will also come along to help form a bit of a London Clojure community within the wider Java group.
Please note this is an online monthly prize draw and no actual meeting will take place. Packt Publishing are a unique publishing company specializing in highly focused books on specific technologies and solutions - please visit their site to find out more about them: www.packtpub.com Each month we run a promotion with Packt in which TWO LJC members will be selected at random to receive a free book. There are a list of 10 books below. To take part in the promotion all you have to do is RSVP to this event on Meetup and complete the questions. Here are the books on offer this month, the winner will be picked at random and announced at the end of the month: Apache Maven 2 Effective Implementation Drools JBoss Rules 5.0 Developer's Guide MooTools 1.2 Beginner's Guide JSF 1.2 Components jBPM Developer Guide Spring Persistence with Hibernate JBoss RichFaces 3.3 ICEfaces 1.8: Next Generation Enterprise Web Development IBM WebSphere eXtreme Scale 6 WebSphere Application Server 7.0 Administration Guide To take part in the promotion all you have to do is RSVP to this event on Meetup and complete the questions. Please visit the Packt site at www.packtpub.com Congratulations to Joel Leslie and Martijn Verburg who won the February draw. Good luck, Barry Cranford
Tonight we're all about the graph database baby. We are going to have an introduction to Neo4J, a Java based graph database with bindings for all manner of languages. Ian Robinson will also be giving a talk about how Neo4J has been put to work on real projects. Then to top it off we'll be trying to use Neo4J as a web-backend for Grails in a coding session.
This is our monthly social gathering which incorporates members of The London Java Community and Graduate Development Communities. We also use this event to run our Community Connections project. The evening We meet in the evening on the third Tuesday of every month in a private room at the Lvpo bar in Soho http://www.lvpo.co.uk... The event kicks of at 6:30 PM and usually goes on until 11:30 with people coming and going at all times throughout the evening. We usually attract 60 70 members so it is a lively event in which members both junior and senior can connect in a relaxed atmosphere and set the development world to rights. Free platters of food will be provided and we have negotiated a happy hour for the duration of the evening. This is a chance to come along and meet and chat with other members of the London Technical Community. It is a great chance to meet other developers and has attracted members of all levels, I'll also be onsite so if anyone is looking for free recruitment advice it's a great chance to come along for a chat. Community Connections Thinking about trying a new language? Looking for help with a difficult technical problem? Considering getting into contracting? We have a community across the two groups of over 1300 people. As part of a free service we use the event as a platform to connect people together within this vast community. If there is anything you would love to speak to a specialist about let me know in advance and Ill try to find someone that I can introduce you to. PLEASE NOTE this is NOT a recruitment effort, moreover a chance to meet a mentor or specialist that may be able to offer support/guidance in a particular area. Previous introductions have been in these areas: - Coding problems around a specific technology- Recently graduated and looking for someone to give you industry advice- Want to find out how to break into finance or contracting- Interested to try a new language and want someone to suggest some good books- Career / CV / Recruitment advice- Looking for help for an open source project OR looking for an open source project and want advice on one to join- Started interviewing people but want to discuss some new techniques- Just new to London and want to meet some people with similar interests So if there is something that you would like to find out about let me know either complete the questions upon signing up to the event or just send me an e-mail with 'Introduction' in the subject title and I will endeavor to make an introduction (e.g. something on the list below).Whatever your question just let me know. Past Feedback: It was very nice, I was looking for a first hand experience and I got it. Basically his suggestions were what I was suspecting but it is good to have a confirmation from a person working on it. Anyway he suggested to collaborate in a finance open-source project what I have not thought before and I think it is very experience. I'd say both the introductions were a success they both had a lot to say about Agile techniques and a lot of experience to share. I definitely found it much more constructive having meetings organized DISCLAIMER: As this is a free service its something I cant guarantee but where possible Ill do what I can to connect you with people that can help for you to meet at the pub.
Nicholas Tollervey will be giving a talk about FluidDB, a radical approach to data in the web era. Nicholas was an early adopter and wrote an API for FluidDB in Java. He will be giving some background on FluidDB and also some insight on working with it from an API,/programmatic point of view. This is a London Geek Nights event that is getting cross-promoted because of the Java link. See the Geek Night wiki page for more information and slides, etc. after the event.
********IMPORTANT ********** SkillsMatter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: http://skillsmatter.com/event/java-jee/enterprise-osgi-in-practice/rl-311 In March 2010 the OSGi Alliance released the first version of the Enterprise OSGi specification. This defines standard approaches and adaption layers for working with existing Java Enterprise technologies, in ways that are natural and easy for OSGi developers and administrators. It also defines new OSGi specifications for administering Remote Services providers, deploying traditionally packaged web applications (i.e., WAR files) to OSGi frameworks, and for assembling distributed applications with SCA. In this talk, Neil will discuss the newly released specification and how it makes life easier both for current OSGi developers and for JEE developers considering supporting or moving towards OSGi. No prior knowledge of OSGi is assumed. Apache Aries is an umbrella project containing implementations of the standards specified in the Enterprise OSGi specification, including several of the Reference Implementations for those specifications. It also includes a lightweight and clean implementation of Blueprint, a standard derived from the Spring Dynamic Modules project. Aries is backed by IBM and SAP, along with committers from smaller companies and independents. In this talk Zo will discuss the components implemented in Apache Aries and show how they can be used to easily assemble enterprise applications. Neil Bartlett is a developer, consultant and trainer specialising in OSGi and Eclipse, and he is currently working for Sun Microsystems on enhancing the tooling for JavaFX in Eclipse. Zo Slattery works for IBM in the UK and is a committer on the Apache Aries project. She is well known in the OSGi community and speaks regularly at events such as JAX/OSGi DevCon and the UK OSGi Users' Forum. ********IMPORTANT ********** SkillsMatter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: http://skillsmatter.com/event/java-jee/enterprise-osgi-in-practice/rl-311
It would be good to have a lightning talk or two before we start on the dojo. We'll decide what we are planning to do for the April dojo as a part of the March dojo. I'll push the code up to github faster this time too. We'll be discussing the meetup on the london-clojurians mailing list: http://groups.google.... And on Google Wave: https://wave.google.c... Clojure is a JVM language that has syntatically similarities to LISP, full integration with Java and its libraries and focuses on providing a solution to the issue of single machine concurrency. Its small core makes it surprisingly easy for Java developers to pick up and it provides a powerful set of concurrency strategies and data structures designed to make immutable data easy to work with. If you went to Rich Hickey's LJC talk about creating Clojure you'll already know this, if not it's well worth watching the Skillsmatter videos. http://skillsmatter.c... The goal of the session is to help people learn to start working with Clojure but we hope that more experienced developers will also come along to help form a bit of a London Clojure community within the wider Java group.
Please note this is an online monthly prize draw and no actual meeting will take place. Packt Publishing are a unique publishing company specializing in highly focused books on specific technologies and solutions - please visit their site to find out more about them: www.packtpub.com Each month we run a promotion with Packt in which TWO LJC members will be selected at random to receive a free book.There are a list of 10 books below. To take part in the promotion all you have to do is RSVP to this event on Meetup and complete the questions.Here are the books on offer this month, the winner will be picked at random and announced at the end of the month: Tomcat 6 Developer's Guide Apache Roller 4.0 Beginner's GuideSpring Web Flow 2 Web DevelopmentJBoss Tools 3 Developers GuideBlogger: Beyond the BasicsSeam 2.x Web DevelopmentLWUIT 1.1 for Java ME DevelopersSOA CookbookOracle Modernization SolutionsFlex 3 with Java To take part in the promotion all you have to do is RSVP to this event on Meetup and complete the questions.Please visit the Packt site at www.packtpub.com Congratulations to Richard Paul and Anup Jadhav who won the March draw. Good luck, Barry Cranford
This is our monthly social gathering which incorporates members of The London Java Community, Graduate Development Communities & London Scala User Group. The evening We meet in the evening on the third Tuesday of every month in a private room at the Lvpo bar in Soho http://www.lvpo.co.uk... The event kicks of at 6:30 PM and usually goes on until 11:30 with people coming and going at all times throughout the evening. We usually attract 60 70 members so it is a lively event in which members both junior and senior can connect in a relaxed atmosphere and set the development world to rights. Free platters of food will be provided and we have negotiated a happy hour for the duration of the evening. This is a chance to come along and meet and chat with other members of the London Technical Community. It is a great chance to meet other developers and has attracted members of all levels, I'll also be onsite so if anyone is looking for free recruitment advice it's a great chance to come along for a chat.
We'll be discussing the meetup on the london-clojurians mailing list: http://groups.google.... And on Google Wave: https://wave.google.c... Clojure is a JVM language that has syntatically similarities to LISP, full integration with Java and its libraries and focuses on providing a solution to the issue of single machine concurrency. Its small core makes it surprisingly easy for Java developers to pick up and it provides a powerful set of concurrency strategies and data structures designed to make immutable data easy to work with. If you went to Rich Hickey's LJC talk about creating Clojure you'll already know this, if not it's well worth watching the Skillsmatter videos. http://skillsmatter.c... The goal of the session is to help people learn to start working with Clojure but we hope that more experienced developers will also come along to help form a bit of a London Clojure community within the wider Java group.
Please note this is an online monthly prize draw and no actual meeting will take place. Packt Publishing are a unique publishing company specializing in highly focused books on specific technologies and solutions - please visit their site to find out more about them: www.packtpub.com Each month we run a promotion with Packt in which LJC members will be selected at random to receive free books. This month we are offering 3 LJC members the chance to win; First Prize Winner will receive 1 print copy and 1 e-copy of his/her choice,Runner Up Winner - 1 print copy of his/her choiceThird Prize Winner - 1 e-copy of his/her choice. There are a list of 10 books below. To take part in the promotion all you have to do is RSVP to this event on Meetup and complete the questions.Here are the books on offer this month, the winner will be picked at random and announced at the end of the month: Apache OFBiz Development: The Beginner's Tutorial Tapestry 5: Building Web ApplicationsSwing Extreme TestingLearning Jakarta Struts 1.2: a concise and practical tutorialDWR Java AJAX ApplicationsBusiness Process Execution Language for Web Services 2nd EditionManaging and Customizing OpenCms 6 WebsitesOSWorkflow: A guide for Java developers and architects to integrating open-source Business Process ManagementiReport 3.7OpenCms 7 Development To take part in the promotion all you have to do is RSVP to this event on Meetup and complete the questions.Please visit the Packt site at www.packtpub.com Congratulations to the winners of our April draw - Jerry Bate and Taulant Bajraktari! Good luck, Barry Cranford
********IMPORTANT ********** SkillsMatter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: http://skillsmatter.c... Deep in the trenches of the Java Language Specification lies the enigmatic Java Memory Model. The Java Memory Model (JMM) is responsible for defining consistent thread behaviour with memory. Without your awareness, your code can be subtly re-ordered, produce values out of thin air and read stale state. This is a scary proposition and James Perry hopes to provide clarity on this esoteric subject so you can walk away knowing what goes under the hood of Java's concurrency constructs. ********IMPORTANT ********** SkillsMatter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: http://skillsmatter.c...
Reto Meier (Google Developer Advocate for Android) will be going through an example of how you can use the Android mobile environment to provide an offline and mobile extension to your web application. This isn't specifically Java based but if you have Java skills you would probably find it easier to get started with an Android application.
***PLEASE NOTE DIFFERENT ADDRESS FOR THIS EVENT ON THIS OCCASION*** This is our monthly social gathering which incorporates members of The London Java Community, Graduate Development Communities & London Scala User Group. The evening We meet in the evening on the third Tuesday of every month - on this occasion we will be meeting here - http://thecrowntavernec1.co.uk/. The event kicks of at 6:30 PM and usually goes on until 11:30 with people coming and going at all times throughout the evening. We usually attract 60 70 members so it is a lively event in which members both junior and senior can connect in a relaxed atmosphere and set the development world to rights. This is a chance to come along and meet and chat with other members of the London Technical Community. It is a great chance to meet other developers and has attracted members of all levels, I'll also be onsite so if anyone is looking for free recruitment advice it's a great chance to come along for a chat.
The London Java Community is delighted to announce our 2nd Unconference, organised in association with the Apache Software Foundation. Firstly and most importantly please be aware that we are using Meetup purely as a way of generating awareness. Skills Matter are sponsoring the event and handling all attendance. Click this link for the official event: http://skillsmatter.c... Last November we ran the 1st Unconference at IBM's offices, this time Skills Matter is making their premier London location available to us and we are delighted to have the ASF as partners. So, if you have something interesting to say about Java or you want hear about (or talk about!) the exciting world of Apache Projects, book your place now! If you missed the last Unconference and don't know what an Unconference is, the Wikipedia definintion is a "facilitated, participant-driven conference centered around a theme or purpose". Our themes this time will be Java and Apache. We know that both of these are broad subject areas - but we didn't want to limit creativity by narrowing the scope. This leaves people free to talk on the Java language, Spring, Hibernate, Open Source and Java, OSGi, perhaps even JVM languages, anything Java that you want....and of course we would welcome participants from any of the 70+ Apache projects or Apache incubating projects. As is tradition with this type of event, the content will be provided by the audience - this means YOU :-) . We are charging a small fee to attend - this is simply to cover costs (continental breakfast, lunch, tea and coffee), the aim is to break even on the event. The number of attendees will be limited to 70, although we'll be keeping a waiting list. The event will cost 27.50 to cover food drink and the venue expenses. You will pay when you register online for the event. For online discussions before, during, and after the event, use Twitter tag: #LJCUC02 We look forward to seeing you on June 26th! Please be aware that we are using Meetup purely as a way of generating awareness. Skills Matter are sponsoring the event and handling all attendance. Click this link for the official event: http://skillsmatter.c...
We'll be discussing the meetup on the london-clojurians mailing list: http://groups.google.... And on Google Wave: https://wave.google.c... Clojure is a JVM language that has syntatically similarities to LISP, full integration with Java and its libraries and focuses on providing a solution to the issue of single machine concurrency. Its small core makes it surprisingly easy for Java developers to pick up and it provides a powerful set of concurrency strategies and data structures designed to make immutable data easy to work with. If you went to Rich Hickey's LJC talk about creating Clojure you'll already know this, if not it's well worth watching the Skillsmatter videos. http://skillsmatter.c... The goal of the session is to help people learn to start working with Clojure but we hope that more experienced developers will also come along to help form a bit of a London Clojure community within the wider Java group.
Please note this is an online monthly prize draw and no actual meeting will take place. Packt Publishing are a unique publishing company specializing in highly focused books on specific technologies and solutions - please visit their site to find out more about them: www.packtpub.com Each month we run a promotion with Packt in which LJC members will be selected at random to receive free books. This month we are offering 3 LJC members the chance to win; First Prize Winner will receive 1 print copy and 1 e-copy of his/her choice,Runner Up Winner - 1 print copy of his/her choiceThird Prize Winner - 1 e-copy of his/her choice. There are a list of 10 books below. To take part in the promotion all you have to do is RSVP to this event on Meetup and complete the questions.Here are the books on offer this month, the winner will be picked at random and announced at the end of the month: RESTful Java Web ServicesAlfresco 3 Enterprise Content Management ImplementationOracle SOA Suite Developer's GuideApache MyFaces 1.2 Web Application DevelopmentGrails 1.1 Web Application DevelopmentjBPM Developer GuideGlassFish AdministrationJBoss RichFaces 3.3IBM WebSphere eXtreme Scale 6JasperReports 3.5 for Java Developers To take part in the promotion all you have to do is RSVP to this event on Meetup and complete the questions. Please visit the Packt site at www.packtpub.com Congratulations to the winners of our May draw - Carlos Fernandez Garcia, Martijn Verburg and Vibhu Mohindra Good luck, Barry Cranford
In the last year there have been big changes in the operations and deployment world. We are now talking about DevOps, Cloud and Continuous Deployment. Paul Nasrat (Google, ex-Guardian) is going to give a talk reviewing recent trends in operations and how developers and operations have been coming together to do frequent, high-quality releases. It's a kind of State of the Devops talk. Paul will also be taking a look at the current state of best practice in the deployment of Java web applications and will be happy to take general build and deployment questions.
This is our monthly social gathering which incorporates members of The London Java Community, Graduate Development Communities, London Scala User Group & OSGi UK Alliance. The evening We meet in the evening on the third Tuesday of every month in a private room at the Lvpo bar in Soho http://www.lvpo.co.uk... The event kicks of at 6:30 PM and usually goes on until 11:30 with people coming and going at all times throughout the evening. We usually attract 60 70 members so it is a lively event in which members both junior and senior can connect in a relaxed atmosphere and set the development world to rights. Free platters of food will be provided. This is a chance to come along and meet and chat with other members of the London Technical Community. It is a great chance to meet other developers and has attracted members of all levels, I'll also be onsite so if anyone is looking for free recruitment advice it's a great chance to come along for a chat.
********IMPORTANT ********** SkillsMatter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: http://tinyurl.com/34... Due to popular demand we are planning something a bit different for July. For the first time the LJC will be holding an evening of Lightning talks on subjects of the moment within the London Java Community. This will be a fast paced exciting evening where you will get exposure to an eclectic mix of speakers and topics from our community in London. If this is a successful event we will organise more in the future. All of our speakers will be members of the LJC. Each talk will be around 5 minutes long with time for questions. ********IMPORTANT ********** SkillsMatter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: http://tinyurl.com/34...
We'll be discussing the meetup on the london-clojurians mailing list: http://groups.google.... And on Google Wave: https://wave.google.c... Clojure is a JVM language that has syntatically similarities to LISP, full integration with Java and its libraries and focuses on providing a solution to the issue of single machine concurrency. Its small core makes it surprisingly easy for Java developers to pick up and it provides a powerful set of concurrency strategies and data structures designed to make immutable data easy to work with. If you went to Rich Hickey's LJC talk about creating Clojure you'll already know this, if not it's well worth watching the Skillsmatter videos. http://skillsmatter.c... The goal of the session is to help people learn to start working with Clojure but we hope that more experienced developers will also come along to help form a bit of a London Clojure community within the wider Java group.
Please note this is an online monthly prize draw and no actual meeting will take place. Packt Publishing are a unique publishing company specializing in highly focused books on specific technologies and solutions - please visit their site to find out more about them: www.packtpub.com Each month we run a promotion with Packt in which LJC members will be selected at random to receive free books. This month we are offering 3 LJC members the chance to win; First Prize Winner will receive 1 print copy and 1 e-copy of his/her choice,Runner Up Winner - 1 print copy of his/her choiceThird Prize Winner - 1 e-copy of his/her choice. There are a list of 10 books below. To take part in the promotion all you have to do is RSVP to this event on Meetup and complete the questions.Here are the books on offer this month, the winner will be picked at random and announced at the end of the month: LWUIT 1.1 for Java ME DevelopersLiferay Portal 5.2 Systems DevelopmentSpring Web Flow 2 Web DevelopmentDrools JBoss Rules 5.0 Developer's GuideWebSphere Application Server 7.0 Administration GuidePentaho Reporting 3.5 for Java DevelopersJSF 1.2 ComponentsSeam 2.x Web DevelopmentOracle Modernization SolutionsPractical Data Analysis and Reporting with BIRT To take part in the promotion all you have to do is RSVP to this event on Meetup and complete the questions. Please visit the Packt site at www.packtpub.com Congratulations to the winners of our June draw - Grzegorz, Greg & Sheikh Abdullawh! Good luck, Barry Cranford
This is our monthly social gathering which incorporates members of The London Java Community, Graduate Development Communities, London Scala User Group & OSGi Users Forum UK. The evening We meet in the evening on the third Tuesday of every month in a private room at the Lvpo bar in Soho http://www.lvpo.co.uk... The event kicks of at 6:30 PM and usually goes on until 11:30 with people coming and going at all times throughout the evening. We usually attract 60 70 members so it is a lively event in which members both junior and senior can connect in a relaxed atmosphere and set the development world to rights. Free platters of food will be provided. This is a chance to come along and meet and chat with other members of the London Technical Community. It is a great chance to meet other developers and has attracted members of all levels, I'll also be onsite so if anyone is looking for free recruitment advice it's a great chance to come along for a chat.
Please note this is an online monthly prize draw and no actual meeting will take place. Packt Publishing are a unique publishing company specializing in highly focused books on specific technologies and solutions - please visit their site to find out more about them: www.packtpub.com Each month we run a promotion with Packt in which LJC members will be selected at random to receive free books. This month we are offering 3 LJC members the chance to win; First Prize Winner will receive 1 print copy and 1 e-copy of his/her choice,Runner Up Winner - 1 print copy of his/her choiceThird Prize Winner - 1 e-copy of his/her choice. There are a list of 10 books below. To take part in the promotion all you have to do is RSVP to this event on Meetup and complete the questions.Here are the books on offer this month, the winner will be picked at random and announced at the end of the month: Spring Persistence with HibernateTomcat 6 Developer's GuideFlex 3 with JavaiReport 3.7JBoss Portal Server DevelopmentMooTools 1.2 Beginner's GuideApache JMeterBlogger: Beyond the BasicsICEfaces 1.8: Next Generation Enterprise Web Development SOA Cookbook To take part in the promotion all you have to do is RSVP to this event on Meetup and complete the questions. Please visit the Packt site at www.packtpub.com Congratulations to the winners of our July draw - Scot, Lee and Krishan! Good luck, Barry Cranford
This is the placeholder entry for the London Clojure Dojo. Signup is now being managed via EventWax. Signup links to follow in the comments
Please note this is an online promotion prize draw and no actual meeting will take place. We have a new promotion from Java2Days and are able to offer ten LJC members the chance to win a free Economy Pass and access to three conferences - Java2Days, Mobile2Days and Cloud2Days. Java2Days 2010 is coming with 2 co-located events The second edition of the international conference Java2Days will be held on 7-8 October 2010 in Sofia, Bulgaria. Java2Days conference is premier event in Eastern Europe to present the latest trends in Java development in the following areas: * Core Java Platform & Desktop* Enterprise Java* Java & the Cloud* Java Web Technologies and Rich User Experience* Java for Mobile and Devices The conference is the only of its kind in Eastern Europe, focused to highlight todays cutting edge trends in building software applications with Java development tools. Java2Days was held for first time at the Inter Expo Center on 8-9 October 2009 in Sofia, Bulgaria. The first edition of Java2Days in 2009 was attended from more than 600 attendees during the two conference days. All visitors had the opportunity to meet world famous speakers, engaged all year round in such events as JavaOne, The ServerSide Java Symposium, Jazoon showcasing their latest knowledge in creating more reliable, scalable and secure solutions using Java technologies in more than 20 technical sessions. This year along with Java2Days there will be organized 2 co-located events Mobile2Days (specialized conference for mobile development) and Cloud2Days (the first international cloud computing event on the Balkans). The main goals of Mobile2Days are to present the opportunities of the most common smart phone platforms, best practices and grate popular technologies for developing mobile applications on them. Cloud2Days will provide valuable content covering the following topics: how to build, manage and control applications in the cloud; how to create and manage cloud infrastructure; key risks and security in a cloud based environment and etc. Over 25 leading speakers will present over 50 sessions at the three co-located events that makes them form the major developers forum in Eastern Europe. The partners of the events are Oracle, IBM and Nokia. Among the sponsors are: VMware, SAP AG, Insitex, Playtech and etc. More information about the 3 events is available at: www.java2days.com. To take part in the promotion all you have to do is RSVP to this event on Meetup and complete the questions. We'll draw the 10 winners on Wednesday 22nd September. Best of Luck, Anji Langridge
This is our monthly social gathering which incorporates members of The London Java Community, Graduate Development Communities, London Scala User Group & OSGi Users Forum UK. This month we're doing things a bit differently: In 2008 Andrew Glover wrote an article asking if Clojure of Scala were poised for stardom: http://www.javaworld..... Two years on we now have two very successful and growing communities running active dojos. Having recently heard that both have been adopted into a variety of companies in London, including large investment banks, it seems a good time to start asking the question again.... this time over a few drinks.... in a bar in Soho.... Therefore for this months pub event we will be asking the question are you Clojure or are you Scala? We will have no formal presentation or slides, but we will be attracting prominent members from each community to come along, so if you've got an opinion on the matter, or you just want to come along and find out what the fuss is about then come along and get involved. Here is the standard info: The evening We meet in the evening on the third Tuesday of every month in a private room at the Lvpo bar in Soho http://www.lvpo.co.uk... The event kicks of at 6:30 PM and usually goes on until 11:30 with people coming and going at all times throughout the evening. We usually attract 60 70 members so it is a lively event in which members both junior and senior can connect in a relaxed atmosphere and set the development world to rights. Free platters of food will be provided. This is a chance to come along and meet and chat with other members of the London Technical Community. It is a great chance to meet other developers and has attracted members of all levels, I'll also be onsite so if anyone is looking for free recruitment advice it's a great chance to come along for a chat.
This is the placeholder entry for the London Clojure Dojo. Signup is now being managed via EventWax. Please sign up for the event here: http://3.ly/0910ldncl... We'll be discussing the meetup and all other things clojure in the london-clojurians google group here: http://groups.google....
********IMPORTANT ********** JAX London are hosting this event and are handling the attendance it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: http://tinyurl.com/2v8cuqh Were delighted to announce the JAX London Community Night, held in association with the London Java Community, on 28th September at Novotel London West, Hammersmith. The Community Night is free to attend simply register here: http://jaxlondon.com/2010/communitynight/ If you know Java fans who cannot come to the main conference, we'd still love to see them at the Community Night! Community Night attendees will have the opportunity to network with speakers and other members of the Java community. Weve confirmed three guest speakers for the evening. We get started at 7.30, but feel free to arrive from 6.45. JAX London Community Night is held as part of the JAX London conference on Tuesday 28th September at Novotel London West, Hammersmith. Sessions: Chris Aniszczyk - Red Hat: e4 Chris will give a 30 minute update on Eclipse e4 David Green - Tasktop Technologies Subject tbc Dalibor Topic Oracle: OpenJDK This session will look at the composition and growth of the OpenJDK community and the associated open source projects. We'll take a look at who's writing code for OpenJDK, who's using it, and how successful the project has been in attracting a community of developers interested in contributing to and working with the JDK code base. Register Now: http://jaxlondon.com/2010/communitynight/ If you need to get in touch or have any questions, contact Mark Hazell from JAX London. markh@jaxlondon.com ********IMPORTANT ********** JAX London are hosting this event and are handling the attendance it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: http://tinyurl.com/2v8cuqh
********IMPORTANT ********** SkillsMatter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: http://tinyurl.com/26kvzgy Are you interested in learning the nuts and bolts of the Java EE 6 platform ?Do you want to learn on how Servlet 3.0, Java Server Faces 2.0, Context & Dependency Injection 1.0, Enterprise JavaBeans 3.1, Bean Validation 1.0, Java Persistence API 2, RESTful Web services and other new technologies in Java EE 6 provide a complete stack for building your Web & Enterprise applications ?GlassFish 3.1 adds clustering, high availability, application versioning and other interesting featuresm, above light-weight, OSGi-based modularity, and embeddability, making it the richest open source application server.Did you know that NetBeans, Eclipse, and IntelliJ provide comprehensive tooling around Java EE 6 and would like to learn it ? Arun Gupta will be giving a 2 hour presentation on Java EE 6 & GlassFish 3. Arun has delivered these sessions all over the world and conducted multiple hands-on workshops on the topic. ********IMPORTANT ********** SkillsMatter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: http://tinyurl.com/26kvzgy
Please note this is an online monthly prize draw and no actual meeting will take place. Packt Publishing are a unique publishing company specializing in highly focused books on specific technologies and solutions - please visit their site to find out more about them: www.packtpub.com Each month we run a promotion with Packt in which LJC members will be selected at random to receive free books. This month we are offering 2 LJC members the chance to win; First Prize Winner will receive 1 print copy of his/her choice,Runner Up Winner - 1 ecopy of his/her choice There are a list of 10 books below. To take part in the promotion all you have to do is RSVP to this event on Meetup and complete the questions.Here are the books on offer this month, the winner will be picked at random and announced at the end of the month: Spring Persistence with HibernateTomcat 6 Developer's GuideFlex 3 with JavaiReport 3.7JBoss Portal Server DevelopmentMooTools 1.2 Beginner's GuideApache JMeterBlogger: Beyond the BasicsICEfaces 1.8: Next Generation Enterprise Web Development SOA Cookbook To take part in the promotion all you have to do is RSVP to this event on Meetup and complete the questions. Please visit the Packt site at www.packtpub.com Congratulations to the winners of our August draw - Rosellyne, Rasamy and Stephen K! Good luck, Barry Cranford
Daniel Lucraft will be giving a talk about his cross-platform editor Redcar. Redcar is distributed as Rubygem, is written in JRuby and uses SWT so technically it's a bit of a romp across the ecosystem. Redcar is capable of using TextMate bundles and Daniel is also aiming to make the editor extensible and scriptable.
This is our monthly social gathering which incorporates members of The London Java Community, Graduate Development Communities, London Scala User Group & OSGi Users Forum UK. This month we're carrying on with our 'themed evening idea'. This is an informal social evening most of the evening will be spent having ad-hoc informal discussions in small groups, we have added a theme to the evening to make it more interesting for all involved and make it less intimidating for new members. This month the theme will be around "Trying to become more agile, what's next?" Agile practices and principles have been applied for over a decade (before the term was coined) and the term Agile is now commonly used to express positive qualities of a team. In all that time there have been many ideas and engaging discussions about what it is to become agile. So this month we have the theme of "Trying to become more agile, what's next?" where we encourage you to talk about the agile principles you think important and the agile practices that have made a difference to your work (e.g. extreme programming, TDD, Scrum, etc). As there has also been much effort to extend agile concepts out of the development team in to the wider organisation, coupled with the renewed interest in Lean, System thinking, Theory of constraints and Kanban, we encourage you to also discuss where you see the agile concepts evolving and if agile and lean concepts would fit together. The evening We meet in the evening on the third Tuesday of every month in a private room at the Lvpo bar in Soho http://www.lvpo.co.uk/ The event kicks off at 6:30 PM and usually goes on until around 11:30 with members coming and going at all times throughout the evening. We usually attract 60 70 members so it is a lively event in which members, both junior and senior, can connect in a relaxed atmosphere and set the development world to rights. Free platters of food will be provided. This is a chance to come along and meet, and chat, with other members of the London Technical Community. It is a great chance to meet other developers and has attracted members of all levels, I'll also be onsite so if anyone is looking for free recruitment advice it's a great chance to come along for a chat.
This is the placeholder entry for the London Clojure Dojo. Signup is now being managed via EventWax. Signup links to follow in the comments
Please note this is an online monthly prize draw and no actual meeting will take place. Packt Publishing are a unique publishing company specializing in highly focused books on specific technologies and solutions - please visit their site to find out more about them: www.packtpub.com Each month we run a promotion with Packt in which LJC members will be selected at random to receive free books. This month we are offering 2 LJC members the chance to win; First Prize Winner will receive 1 print copy of his/her choice,Runner Up Winner - 1 ecopy of his/her choice There are a list of 10 books below. To take part in the promotion all you have to do is RSVP to this event on Meetup and complete the questions.Here are the books on offer this month, the winner will be picked at random and announced at the end of the month: YUI 2.8: Learning the LibraryjBPM Developer GuideGlassFish AdministrationGrails 1.1 Web Application Development Openfire AdministrationBIRT 2.6 Data Analysis and ReportingSpring Security 3JBoss RichFaces 3.3 JasperReports 3.5 for Java DevelopersApache Roller 4.0 Beginner's Guide To take part in the promotion all you have to do is RSVP to this event on Meetup and complete the questions. Please visit the Packt site at www.packtpub.com Congratulations to the winners of our September draw - Luis and Caoilte! Good luck, Barry Cranford
********IMPORTANT ********** SkillsMatter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: http://tinyurl.com/3x45fha The topic of this presentation is about using Scala programming language with GridGain framework to provide a simple and productive cloud computing platform.Scala is a hybrid function and object-oriented language that is rapidly gaining traction in becoming the next Java in JVM-based language evolution. GridGain is one of the most rapidly growing cloud development platforms for JVM-based languages. 2/3 of the presentation will be devoted to live coding demonstration of writing basic MapReduce application in Scala using GridGain middleware. All coding during demonstration will be done live. Overview of grid and cloud computing concepts as well as notion of Native Cloud Applications will be discussed. Short intro into Scala language will also be provided. What problems/challenges will an attendee learn to solve by attending your session?Attendee will learn how to use Scala - one of the most exciting JVM-based languages - to quickly and efficiently build cloud-enabled applications. They will also learn on how to quickly build simple MapReduce application using GridGain framework. What will attendees learn by attending your session?Attendees will learn:How to build and run simple Scala MapReduce applicationHow to start and configure GridGainHow to cloud-enable the existing Scala code using GridGain to run it on the cloudWho should attend your session?Java developers with a proficient level of Java expertiseScala developers of all levelsDevelopers interested in practical aspects of cloud computingWhat basics should attendees know before attending your session?Working knowledge of JavaBasic understanding of distributed programming conceptsNo Scala or cloud computing experience is required About 1/3 of the presentation will be devoted to overview of grid and cloud computing as well as crash-course into Scala programming language. 2/3 of the presentation will be devoted to a live, hands-on coding demonstration of building simple MapReduce applications in Scala using GridGain. ********IMPORTANT ********** SkillsMatter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: http://tinyurl.com/3x45fha
We are running our first code retreat to help members of the LJC practice the art of software development at the Garwood Lecture Theatre, South Wing, 1st Floor of the University College London (UCL) 9am Doors opening9.30am Introductions and discussion of the code retreat approach10 am - 1pm Morning Session1pm - 2pm Lunch2pm - 5pm Afternoon session5pm Optional wrap up or just head off to the pub We will spend the day coming up with solutions for Conway's Game of Life, practising good software design using test driven development (TDD). Each hour through the day we will spend 45 minutes pairing to come up with a solution to the game of life, using Unit Tests and Mocking frameworks to help us think about the behaviour and responsibilities in our solution. Each hour you swap pairs and start all over again. You do not need to be an expert programmer, but you are expected to work well with others and avoid Ego driven development. This is an exercise as much in co-operation as it is design and should be an enjoyable experience for all. We encouraged you to have a basic understanding of JUnit and Unit tests, using Hamcrest is also a good idea and optionally mocking frameworks such as Mockito. Places for this event are strictly limited, please only sign up if you are definitely attending. As this is a free and unsponsored event, food will not be provided. For lunch we will make use of the ULU canteen or you are free to bring your own food or visit one of the supermarkets on Tottenham Court Road. Food must be consumed outside the venue of the code review. DirectionsPlease see the map of the UCL campus and visual directions to the Garwood Lecture theatre. Text directions for the venue:Start at the main entrance on Gower Street (aka the Front Lodge), you will see the domed Portico across the quadrangle in front of you. Walk to the far right corner of the quadrangle, through the doors, and up the stairs to the first floor. The Garwood theatre is about halfway along the corridor, on the right hand side. You will pass various displays about rocks and geology on the way. http://picasaweb.google.co.uk/lh/photo/KvBinRVICGTJQ8eEFsvcpQ?feat=directlink
This is our monthly social gathering which incorporates members of The London Java Community, Graduate Development Communities, London Scala User Group & OSGi Users Forum UK. This month we're carrying on with our 'themed evening idea'. This is an informal social evening most of the evening will be spent having ad-hoc informal discussions in small groups, we have added a theme to the evening to make it more interesting for all involved and make it less intimidating for new members. This month the theme will be around the future of our platform. There seems to be a lot of talk in the air at the moment about what the future holds for Java. In the opening keynote of JaveOne 2010, Thomas Kurian, Executive Vice President, Oracle Products Development, outlined plans for the moving the Java Platform forward and "left little doubt that the Java platform is alive, kicking, and heading into new territory with plenty of energy and brain power." This is a chance to delve deeper into this and discuss/find out where you feel Java is heading. Please post comments and links to further reading below The evening We meet in the evening on the third Tuesday of every month in a private room at the Lvpo bar in Soho http://www.lvpo.co.uk/ The event kicks off at 6:30 PM and usually goes on until around 11:30 with members coming and going at all times throughout the evening. We usually attract 60 70 members so it is a lively event in which members, both junior and senior, can connect in a relaxed atmosphere and set the development world to rights. Free platters of food will be provided. This is a chance to come along and meet, and chat, with other members of the London Technical Community. It is a great chance to meet other developers and has attracted members of all levels, I'll also be onsite so if anyone is looking for free recruitment advice it's a great chance to come along for a chat.
Details of the Conference sessions proposed are being placed on the LJC Open Conference website Directions to venue (Google Map)The entrance to the IBM offices is on UpperGround (Google Street View) opposite the junction of Cornwall street. You will see a driveway going up to the first floor of the building, walk up the footpath on this driveway to arrive at the entrance to the IBM building. SIGN UP DIRECTLY - If you want to bypass the Meetup.com LJC sign-up process Schedule overview (see full schedule):8.30 am Doors open - network and breakfast9.55 am Sign-in hands over to security (will be very slow)10 am Conference Keynote5.30 pm Conference wrap up5.30 pm+ IBM sponsored drinks at the venue then optional visit to pub Conference overviewLJC Conference #3 is a one day event where you can attend a wide range of talks, workshops and practical sessions, drawn from the experiences of those in industry. Its a great opportunity to learn with up to 50 sessions during the day, including a keynote, lightning talks, open source project overviews, workshops, discussion groups and presentations. The conference will start with a keynote talk on "The future of the Java Ecosystem" and then split off into different session tracks throughout the day, giving you an opportunity to experience a wide range of topics and ideas. What people said about our last two conferences (see photos):"Fantastic day, learned a great deal and made some valuable connections with people in the industry, more of these please""Amazing forum. Met some of the best minds in the field. Inspired me to learn more and work harder.. ""Brilliant time! Learnt a lot and met a lot of great people. Look forward to the next one :-)""An excellent opportunity to learn more about things I should know about but didn't" Whilst there will be plenty of things you can relax and enjoy at the conference, those who want to can get more involved and are encouraged to share there ideas and experiences. Some sessions have already been proposed, why not let us know what you want to see or present? You can also come up with ideas and sessions on the morning of the conference (as with an unconference)!! We encourage you to talk about a wide range of topics, not just specifics of the Java language, Spring, Hibernate, Open Source, OSGi, etc, but also about tools and practices - eg. software craftsmanship, BDD, TDD, Kanban, Agile and other practices that enhance our world. Due to the diversity of the Java ecosystem in terms of languages, we have many people from the Groovy, Scala and Clojure user groups will be sharing their experiences. The open conference has a minimal payment to cover costs of food and venue. No payment is made to speakers from this entry fee. If you are unable to pay via Paypal, please contact the organiser directly and we will try to seek alternative solution.
JRebel maps your project workspace directly to your running application. When a developer makes a change to any class or resource in their IDE the change is immediately reflected in the application, skipping the build and redeploy phases. For further information see their site: http://www.zeroturnaround.com/jrebel We have two personal licenses of JRebel including their Enterprise Add-on (a combined value of $159 USD) to offer this month. To take part in the promotion all you have to do is RSVP to this event on Meetup and complete the questions. Thanks,Barry
Please note this is an online monthly prize draw and no actual meeting will take place. Packt Publishing are a unique publishing company specializing in highly focused books on specific technologies and solutions - please visit their site to find out more about them: www.packtpub.com Each month we run a promotion with Packt in which LJC members will be selected at random to receive free books. This month we are offering 2 LJC members the chance to win; First Prize Winner will receive 1 print copy of his/her choice,Runner Up Winner - 1 ecopy of his/her choice There are a list of 10 books below. To take part in the promotion all you have to do is RSVP to this event on Meetup and complete the questions.Here are the books on offer this month, the winner will be picked at random and announced at the end of the month: Net beans Platform 6.9 Developer's GuideLiferay Portal Enterprise Intranets Alfresco 3 Web Services JSF 2.0 Cookbook Blogger: Beyond the Basics Building Websites with OpenCmsTomcat 6 Developer's GuideSeam 2.x Web Development JBoss AS 5 Development BIRT 2.6 Data Analysis and Reporting To take part in the promotion all you have to do is RSVP to this event on Meetup and complete the questions. Please visit the Packt site at www.packtpub.com Congratulations to the winners of our October draw - Somay and David B! Good luck, Barry Cranford
This is the placeholder entry for the London Clojure Dojo. Signup is now being managed via EventWax. Signup links to follow in the comments
********IMPORTANT ********** SkillsMatter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: http://tinyurl.com/24... Our friends with the Groovy & Grails User Group and SkillsMatter have organised this as a special event. Dierk Koenig will be at SkillsMatter to teach his Groovy workshop and his Grails workshop (and to join them at the Groovy & Grails eXchange), so SkillsMatter asked him if he could give a community In The Brain talk as well... In this talk called Groovy for Pro's, Pro's stands for both professionals and programmers.In a very relaxed setting we will go through various issues that a professional programmer may care about when using Groovy. Bring your questions! ABOUT DIERK KOENIG Dierk Knig works as a fellow for Canoo Engineering AG, Basel, Switzerland. He is committer to Groovy and Grails, lead author of the "Groovy in Action" book, and manager of the open-source Canoo WebTest project. ********IMPORTANT ********** SkillsMatter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: http://tinyurl.com/24...
JRebel maps your project workspace directly to your running application. When a developer makes a change to any class or resource in their IDE the change is immediately reflected in the application, skipping the build and redeploy phases. For further information see their site: http://www.zeroturnar.... We have two personal licenses of JRebel including their Enterprise Add-on (a combined value of $159 USD) to offer this month. To take part in the promotion all you have to do is RSVP to this event on Meetup and complete the questions. Thanks,Barry
Please note this is an online monthly prize draw and no actual meeting will take place. Packt Publishing are a unique publishing company specializing in highly focused books on specific technologies and solutions - please visit their site to find out more about them: www.packtpub.com Each month we run a promotion with Packt in which LJC members will be selected at random to receive free books. This month we are offering 2 LJC members the chance to win; First Prize Winner will receive 1 print copy of his/her choice,Runner Up Winner - 1 ecopy of his/her choice There are a list of 10 books below - Packt have kindly offered the most recently published Java books in celebration of it being the last month of the year! To take part in the promotion all you have to do is RSVP to this event on Meetup and complete the questions. Here are the books on offer this month, the winner will be picked at random and announced at the end of the month: JBoss AS 5 Development Google App Engine Java and GWT Application Development JavaFX 1.2 Application Development Cookbook Java EE 6 with GlassFish 3 Application Server Alfresco 3 Web Content Management EJB 3.0 Database Persistence with Oracle Fusion Middleware 11g Selenium 1.0 Testing Tools: Beginners Guide JasperReports 3.6 Development Cookbook BlackBerry Java Application Development Learning Ext JS 3.2 To take part in the promotion all you have to do is RSVP to this event on Meetup and complete the questions. Please visit the Packt site at www.packtpub.com Congratulations to the winners of our November draw - Mike Boskov and Konstantinos Papalias! Good luck, Barry Cranford
This is our monthly social gathering, which incorporates members of The London Java Community and Graduate Development Communities. This is an informal social evening most of the evening will be spent having ad-hoc informal discussions in small groups, we have added a theme to the evening to make it more interesting for all involved and make it less intimidating for new members. This month the theme will be around what 2011 holds for the LJC. A new year and a new venue. This month will be our first event at a new venue the Porterhouse: http://www.porterhous... We have booked out the top floor, the venue is beautiful and they have beers from all over the world. This month they will be throwing on a few plates of food for us too. The event will kick off at 6:30 PM and usually goes on until around 11:30 with members coming and going at all times throughout the evening. We usually attract 50 70 members so it is a lively event in which members, both junior and senior, can connect in a relaxed atmosphere and set the development world to rights. This is a chance to come along and meet, and chat, with other members of the London Technical Community. It is a great chance to meet other developers and has attracted members of all levels, I'll also be onsite so if anyone is looking for free recruitment advice it's a great chance to come along for a chat.
This is the placeholder entry for the London Clojure Dojo. Signup is now being managed via EventWax. Signup athttps://ldncljdojo.eventwax.com/january-2011-london-clojure-dojo
JRebel maps your project workspace directly to your running application. When a developer makes a change to any class or resource in their IDE the change is immediately reflected in the application, skipping the build and redeploy phases. For further information see their site: http://www.zeroturnaround.com/jrebel We have two personal licenses of JRebel including their Enterprise Add-on (a combined value of $159 USD) to offer this month. To take part in the promotion all you have to do is RSVP to this event on Meetup and complete the questions. Thanks,Barry
Please note this is an online monthly prize draw and no actual meeting will take place. Packt Publishing are a unique publishing company specializing in highly focused books on specific technologies and solutions - please visit their site to find out more about them: www.packtpub.com Each month we run a promotion with Packt in which LJC members will be selected at random to receive free books. This month we are offering 2 LJC members the chance to win; First Prize Winner will receive 1 print copy of his/her choice,Runner Up Winner - 1 ecopy of his/her choice There are a list of 10 books below. To take part in the promotion all you have to do is RSVP to this event on Meetup and complete the questions.Here are the books on offer this month, the winner will be picked at random and announced at the end of the month: Django JavaScript Integration: AJAX and jQuery Google Web Toolkit 2 Application Development CookbookSelenium 1.0 Testing Tools: Beginners Guide OSGi and Apache Felix 3.0 Beginner's GuideSpring Web Flow 2 Web DevelopmentAlfresco 3 Web Services YUI 2.8: Learning the LibraryMicrosoft SQL Azure Enterprise Application DevelopmentGoogle App Engine Java and GWT Application DevelopmentFlex 3 with Java To take part in the promotion all you have to do is RSVP to this event on Meetup and complete the questions. Please visit the Packt site at www.packtpub.com Congratulations to the winners of our December draw - Xabier Burgos and John K! Good luck, Barry Cranford
The doors will open at 18:00 for some refreshments sponsored by PlayFish and if we're lucky playing in their Rockband lounge. At 18:30 we will have a few lightening talks on Concurrency, including Campbell Wilson of PlayFish speaking on Concurrency and the general architecture of their highly scalable Social Games. For our main event Ben Evans of Deutsche Bank will present a very distinctive take on Modern Java Concurrency Synopsis: Clock speed and performance are no longer increasing as spectacularly as they once did. Instead the focus has turned to more cores per chip. This talk provides a unique perspective on the Java concurrency landscape as it exists today (both "classic" and java.util.concurrent), and some pointers towards the future of concurrency across the platform.
This is our monthly social gathering, which incorporates members of The London Java Community and Graduate Development Communities. This is an informal social evening most of the evening will be spent having ad-hoc informal discussions in small groups, we have added a theme to the evening to make it more interesting for all involved and make it less intimidating for new members. This month the theme will be around Diversity - The Good, The Bad & The Ugly Diversity seems to be a hot topic at the moment. With Andy Gray bringing the subject of diversity in sports into the press and our very own Trisha Gee highlighting the difficulties the industry currently faces within diversity, we have dedicated a night to the subject. We have all heard stories about the good benefits of diversity along with the ugly stories of it being handled badly. The theme for this evenings event will involve your thoughts on diverse teams and the benefits diversity can bring to a software development team. We can look at the fact that none of us are average developers,how everyone is different and why that is a good thing in a development team. It is highly recommended that you read Trisha's post on the subject here:http://mechanitis.blogspot.com/2011/01/on-how-not-to-target-girl-geeks.htmlWe have booked out the top floor of the Porterhouse in Covent Garden http://www.porterhousebrewco.com/coventgarden.html, the venue is beautiful and they have beers from all over the world. The event will kick off at 6:30 PM and usually goes on until around 11:30 with members coming and going at all times throughout the evening. We usually attract 50 70 members so it is a lively event in which members, both junior and senior, can connect in a relaxed atmosphere and set the development world to rights. This is a chance to come along and meet, and chat, with other members of the London Technical Community. It is a great chance to meet other developers and has attracted members of all levels, I'll also be onsite so if anyone is looking for free recruitment advice it's a great chance to come along for a chat.
Please note - This event is being organised through GGUG. Hosted by SkillsMatter and promoted through the LJC. You will need to confirm your attendance here: http://skillsmatter.com/event/java-jee/groovy-grails-whats-all-the-fuss/rl-311 ; Groovy and Grails have steadily been gaining traction in the last few years, but what exactly are they and how can they help you? In a first 40 minute talk, Peter Ledbrook will introduce the language and some of the most significant projects associated with it. The focus will be on the practical real world benefits of adding Groovy and its related projects to your tool chest. In the second talk, Jianfeng Tian will do a case study of four greenfield projects that he has successfully completed at LSE using Grails, the Groovy based web framework. Please note - This event is being organised through GGUG. Hosted by SkillsMatter and promoted through the LJC. You will need to confirm your attendance here: http://skillsmatter.com/event/java-jee/groovy-grails-whats-all-the-fuss/rl-311 ;
Please ignore RSVPs on this page - signup is at - https://ldncljdojo.eventwax.com/february-2011-london-clojure-dojo
JRebel maps your project workspace directly to your running application. When a developer makes a change to any class or resource in their IDE the change is immediately reflected in the application, skipping the build and redeploy phases. For further information see their site: http://www.zeroturnar... We have two personal licenses of JRebel including their Enterprise Add-on (a combined value of $159 USD) to offer this month. To take part in the promotion all you have to do is RSVP to this event on Meetup and complete the questions. Congratulations to last month's winners - Caspar and Loic! Thanks,Barry
Please note this is an online monthly prize draw and no actual meeting will take place. Packt Publishing are a unique publishing company specializing in highly focused books on specific technologies and solutions - please visit their site to find out more about them: www.packtpub.com Each month we run a promotion with Packt in which LJC members will be selected at random to receive free books. This month we are offering 2 LJC members the chance to win; First Prize Winner will receive 1 print copy of his/her choiceRunner Up Winner - 1 ecopy of his/her choice There are a list of6 books below. To take part in the promotion all you have to do is RSVP to this event on Meetup and complete the questions. Here are the books on offer this month, the winner will be picked at random and announced at the end of the month: NetBeans Platform 6.9 Developer's GuideYahoo! User Interface Library 2.x CookbookOracle APEX 4.0 CookbookGlassFish Security Django JavaScript Integration: AJAX and jQueryJasperReports 3.6 Development Cookbook To take part in the promotion all you have to do is RSVP to this event on Meetup and complete the questions. Please visit the Packt site at www.packtpub.com Congratulations to the winners of ourJanuary draw - Mani and Alex! Good luck, Barry Cranford
Win one of three free passes to the MongoDB conference. MongoUK is a one-day conference dedicated to the open source, non-relational database MongoDB - Monday 21st March 2011 - 9am to 6pm. Click here for more details - http://www.10gen.com/conferences/mongouk2011 For your chance to win please RSVP to this event and answer the sign-up questions. The winners will be contacted after 10am on Friday 11th March 2011. Best of luck
This is our monthly social gathering, which incorporates members of The London Java Community and Graduate Development Communities. This is an informal social evening most of the evening will be spent having ad-hoc informal discussions in small groups. We usually keep to a them for the event and this month it will be based around Concurrency. Following on from last months event in which we saw record numbers of signups - We will have some members in attendance with a variety of experience on different aspects of Concurrency in Java so it's a great chance to come along and discuss any problems you've been having, or solutions you've found within Concurrency. It will all be in an informal discussion setting with no prearranged presentations. We have booked out the top floor of the Porterhouse in Covent Garden http://www.porterhous ;..., the venue is beautiful and they have beers from all over the world. The event will kick off at 6:30 PM and usually goes on until around 11:30 with members coming and going at all times throughout the evening. We usually attract 50 70 members so it is a lively event in which members, both junior and senior, can connect in a relaxed atmosphere and set the development world to rights. This is a chance to come along and meet, and chat, with other members of the London Technical Community. It is a great chance to meet other developers and has attracted members of all levels, I'll also be onsite so if anyone is looking for free recruitment advice it's a great chance to come along for a chat.
AWS Tech Summit for Developers and Architects Please note this is an event organised and run by Amazon Web Services. They have asked us to assist with promoting the event, if you are interested please sign up to at this link: http://aws.amazon.com/aws-tech-summit-london-2011/register/?00N500000026nJd=ljgaws Attend this half-day event and gain in-depth knowledge of key technical concepts such as running applications and databases using Amazon Web Services (AWS). AWS offers a set of simple building block web services that together form a reliable, scalable, and inexpensive computing platform in the cloud. During the event, customers will present on their use cases and experiences with AWS. In addition, the AWS team will discuss: * the latest AWS product launches * how to choose between our various database offers based on use case, and * how to easily deploy Java applications in the AWS cloud, * how to set up the infrastructure of a high-availability website. Who should attend: * Developers, engineers, system administrators, and architects interested in cloud computing. * System administrators interested in the virtual compute resources available in the AWS cloud. * Database engineers who are looking to gain a deep understanding of the AWS database offering. * Java developers looking to create/deploy applications for the cloud. Agenda: 12:00 12:30: Doors Open12:30 12:50: Ahead in the Cloud & Review of Recent AWS Launches12:50 13:35: AWS Customer Presentations13:35 14:05: Q&A with AWS Customers14:05 14:30: Break Technical Sessions: 14:30 15:30: Deploying Java Applications in the AWS Cloud: A Closer Look at Amazon Elastic Beanstalk15:30 16:30: Running Databases with AWS - How to Make the Right Choice for Your Use Case16:30 17:30: High-Availability Websites: Build Better Websites with a Concert of AWS Products17:30 18:30: Beer and Networking Please note this is an event organised and run by Amazon Web Services. They have asked us to assist with promoting the event, if you are interested please sign up to at this link: http://aws.amazon.com/aws-tech-summit-london-2011/register/?00N500000026nJd=ljgaws
Entrance is the half way along Gordon Street. Please take a look at the UCL campus map to help get your bearings. This event will give you an introduction to Test Driven Development (TDD), a standard practice for development projects in industry and is also used in many open source projects. Having an appreciation of TDD and being able to talk about the values it brings will help you stand out from the crowd and impress prospective employers and it will also help you work with the people in your team when you get that job. The tooling up series aims to give junior developers and graduates understanding of the common software tools and practices used in Industry, helping you get a good start with your career. Employers look for those candidates that know how to practically apply the learning gained from University without spending time and money training them on the tools they use. The more experience you have of the tools used in industry, then you are more likely to turn your degree into a career. The "tooling up" series gives you a kick start on that road and presents a wealth of experience from experts in the industry, conveying the essential information you need to help secure a job. Tutorial and code examples Schedule 6.00pm - Doors open6.30pm - Brief intro to series & resources available6.40pm - Overview of Test Driven development practices and tools7.00pm - Workshop on writing unit tests - setting up Netbeans with JUnit (and Hamcrest) - writing your first test - test / code / refactor approach - working on simple exercise (in pairs, triples, quads) - supporting TDD development with version control (subversion)8.30pm - Opportunity to network Who should attend- Current students with an interest in programming looking to find out about real world software projects- Developers in their first role looking to add some knowledge to back up their career- Academics looking to get a deeper understanding of Open Source tools and common practices RequirementsTo take part in the exercises, please bring your laptop with Netbeans installed (preferably version 6.8 or greater). If you do not have a laptop, you can still take part as we would also like you to pair up or work in a small group when doing the exercises. Please note, from version 7 of netbeans, JUnit is not distributed by default due to a license concern from Oracle. However, you are prompted to install the JUnit plugin the first time you run Netbeans 7.
********IMPORTANT ********** SkillsMatter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: http://skillsmatter.com/event/java-jee/modern-java-concurrency/rl-890 During the event, we will have two main technical presentations around concurrency which will be preceded by 3-4 of lightning talks from our members. BEN EVANS - Clock speed and performance are no longer increasing as spectacularly as they once did. Instead the focus has turned to more cores per chip. This talk provides a unique perspective on the Java concurrency landscape as it exists today (both "classic" and java.util.concurrent), and some pointers towards the future of concurrency across the platform. MICHAEL BARKER - How to Do 100K TPS at Less than1ms Latency Conventional wisdom says that memory is fast, disk is slow, networks are slower and that fast systems must be highly concurrent to achieve maximum performance. Much of this is outdated and some of it is now wrong.Modern hardware is phenomenally fast, but we have become complacent and use it in extremely inefficient and inappropriate ways. For world class performance on commodity hardware you need to take a holistic approach to software design. The good news is that all the stuff we learned in computer science 101 is what really matters, choose your data structures carefully, model your domain, understand your platform, work hard to have a clear separation of concerns, but as well as all of that, run your business logic on a single thread!? Mike Barker works for the London Multi-Asset Exchange (LMAX) and are building one of the world's fastest trading platforms using a radical new architecture that takes it all back to basics.This session will describe some of the challenges faced when developing the worlds fastest financial exchange - little things like how to do over 100K/tps at less than 1ms latency yet still have full HA support in a distributed environment. ********IMPORTANT ********** SkillsMatter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: http://skillsmatter.com/event/java-jee/modern-java-concurrency/rl-890
OSGI: Let's Get Started Please note SkillsMatter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: http://skillsmatter.com/event/java-jee/osgi-lets-get-started Attend this presentation to gain an basic overview of the key aspects of OSGi, including concepts and the problems it solves in the Java language. This session is aimed at beginners and those who are looking at OSGi for the first time. The session will look into some of the problems of the Java language today followed by how they are solved by OSGi. During the ppt. presentation, a live demo will be included to show how a user can deploy OSGi bundles into an OSGi framework and how a developer can manage the bundle in the OSGi environment. We will look at enterprise OSGi and briefly look at Apache Aries, a newly graduated project in Apache which provides an enterprise OSGi platform. Who should attend: Developers, engineers, and architects interested in OSGi technologies. OSGi developers looking to solidify their basic OSGi knowledge Java developers looking to adopt the OSGi technology Anyone just wanting to know what OSGi is!Agenda: 18:00: Doors Open18:30: A series of lightning talks from members of the London Java Community.19:00: Simon Maple & Zoe Slattery will present OSGi: Lets get started. Please note SkillsMatter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: http://skillsmatter.com/event/java-jee/osgi-lets-get-started
This is the placeholder entry for the London Clojure Dojo. Signup is now being managed via EventWax: https://ldncljdojo.eventwax.com/march-2011-london-clojure-dojo
Please note this is an online monthly prize draw and no actual meeting will take place. Packt Publishing are a unique publishing company specializing in highly focused books on specific technologies and solutions - please visit their site to find out more about them: www.packtpub.com Each month we run a promotion with Packt in which LJC members will be selected at random to receive free books. This month we are offering 2 LJC members the chance to win; First Prize Winner will receive 1 print copy of his/her choiceRunner Up Winner - 1 ecopy of his/her choice There are a list of6 books below. To take part in the promotion all you have to do is RSVP to this event on Meetup and complete the questions. Here are the books on offer this month, the winner will be picked at random and announced at the end of the month: Selenium 1.0 Testing Tools: Beginners Guide Apache OfBiz Cookbook Yahoo! User Interface Library 2.x Cookbook Google App Engine Java and GWT Application Development Ext GWT 2.0: Beginner's Guide Microsoft SQL Azure Enterprise Application Development To take part in the promotion all you have to do is RSVP to this event on Meetup and complete the questions. Please visit the Packt site at www.packtpub.com Congratulations to the winners of ourFebruarydraw - Robyn and Carlos! Good luck, Barry Cranford
JRebel maps your project workspace directly to your running application. When a developer makes a change to any class or resource in their IDE the change is immediately reflected in the application, skipping the build and redeploy phases. For further information see their site: http://www.zeroturnaround.com/jrebel We have two personal licenses of JRebel including their Enterprise Add-on (a combined value of $159 USD) to offer this month. To take part in the promotion all you have to do is RSVP to this event on Meetup and complete the questions. Congratulations to last month's winners - Asad and Jonathan! Thanks,Barry
This is our monthly social gathering, which incorporates members of The London Java Community and Graduate Development Communities. This is an informal social evening most of the evening will be spent having ad-hoc informal discussions in small groups. We have booked out the top floor of the Porterhouse in Covent Garden http://www.porterhous ;..., the venue is beautiful and they have beers from all over the world. This months Developer Sessions (Tuesday 19th April) will be based on Java in the cloud. We will be discussing everything from: * Amazon cloud services and the new beanstalk infrastructure* vmforce - Spring as a Service with Salesforce as a data layer* Google app engine* JClouds* Cloud based IDEs (for some fun).* SalesForce The event will kick off at 6:30 PM and usually goes on until around 11:30 with members coming and going at all times throughout the evening. We usually attract 50 70 members so it is a lively event in which members, both junior and senior, can connect in a relaxed atmosphere and set the development world to rights. This is a chance to come along and meet, and chat, with other members of the London Technical Community. It is a great chance to meet other developers and has attracted members of all levels, I'll also be onsite so if anyone is looking for free recruitment advice it's a great chance to come along for a chat.
This is the placeholder entry for the London Clojure Dojo. Signup is now being managed via EventWax. Signup links to follow in the comments
Please note this is an online monthly prize draw and no actual meeting will take place. Packt Publishing are a unique publishing company specializing in highly focused books on specific technologies and solutions - please visit their site to find out more about them: www.packtpub.com Each month we run a promotion with Packt in which LJC members will be selected at random to receive free books. This month we are offering 2 LJC members the chance to win; First Prize Winner will receive 1 print copy of his/her choiceRunner Up Winner - 1 ecopy of his/her choice There are a list of6 books below. To take part in the promotion all you have to do is RSVP to this event on Meetup and complete the questions. Here are the books on offer this month, the winner will be picked at random and announced at the end of the month: Ext GWT 2.0: Beginner's GuideJasperReports 3.6 Development CookbookAndroid User Interface Development: Beginner's GuideDjango JavaScript Integration: AJAX and jQueryMicrosoft SQL Azure Enterprise Application DevelopmentJavaScript Testing Beginner's Guide To take part in the promotion all you have to do is RSVP to this event on Meetup and complete the questions. Please visit the Packt site at www.packtpub.com Congratulations to the winners of ourMarchdraw - Javier and Rob! Good luck, Barry Cranford
JRebel maps your project workspace directly to your running application. When a developer makes a change to any class or resource in their IDE the change is immediately reflected in the application, skipping the build and redeploy phases. For further information see their site: http://www.zeroturnaround.com/jrebel We have two personal licenses of JRebel including their Enterprise Add-on (a combined value of $159 USD) to offer this month. To take part in the promotion all you have to do is RSVP to this event on Meetup and complete the questions. Congratulations to last month's winners - Keith Mannock and Konstantinos Papalias! Thanks,Barry
This is our monthly social gathering, which incorporates members of The London Java Community and Graduate Development Communities. This is an informal social evening most of the evening will be spent having ad-hoc informal discussions in small groups. We have booked out the top floor of the Porterhouse in Covent Garden http://techcrunch.com/2011/05/07/why-the-new-guy-cant-code/ we are going to base this months developer sessions on technical problems, tests and solutions. There is going to be a number of technical books and t-shirts up for grabs for the best technical problems and solutions to technical problems on Tuesday. We will also use this as a starting point to discuss various technical tests that you have taken, what you feel has been the best approach, what has worked well as well as your least favourite tests This is a chance to come along and meet, and chat, with other members of the London Technical Community. It is a great chance to meet other developers and has attracted members of all levels, I'll also be onsite so if anyone is looking for free recruitment advice it's a great chance to come along for a chat.
This is the placeholder entry for the London Clojure Dojo. Signup is now being managed via EventWax. Signup links to follow in the comments
Please note this is an online monthly prize draw and no actual meeting will take place. Packt Publishing are a unique publishing company specializing in highly focused books on specific technologies and solutions - please visit their site to find out more about them: www.packtpub.com Each month we run a promotion with Packt in which LJC members will be selected at random to receive free books. This month we are offering 2 LJC members the chance to win; First Prize Winner will receive 1 print copy of his/her choiceRunner Up Winner - 1 ecopy of his/her choice There are a list of6 books below. To take part in the promotion all you have to do is RSVP to this event on Meetup and complete the questions. Here are the books on offer this month, the winner will be picked at random and announced at the end of the month: Yahoo! User Interface Library 2.x CookbookGoogle App Engine Java and GWT Application DevelopmentLearning Ext JS 3.2Android User InterfaceDevelopment: Beginner's GuideJava EE 6 with GlassFish 3 Application ServerNetBeans Platform 6.9 Developer's Guide To take part in the promotion all you have to do is RSVP to this event on Meetup and complete the questions. Please visit the Packt site at www.packtpub.com Congratulations to the winners of ourAprildraw - Savvas D and Adrian S! Good luck, Barry Cranford
JRebel maps your project workspace directly to your running application. When a developer makes a change to any class or resource in their IDE the change is immediately reflected in the application, skipping the build and redeploy phases. For further information see their site: http://www.zeroturnaround.com/jrebel We have two personal licenses of JRebel including their Enterprise Add-on (a combined value of $159 USD) to offer this month. To take part in the promotion all you have to do is RSVP to this event on Meetup and complete the questions. Congratulations to last month's winners - Petr and Alessandro! Thanks,Barry
AWS Elastic Beanstalk Refreshments for this event are being sponsored by Playfish and Amazon - see below Since 2006, Amazon Web Services have been providing on demand, pay-as-you-go infrastructure to teams of all sizes. This talk will introduce AWS Elastic Beanstalk, a new service for deploying Java code to the Amazon cloud platform. Elastic Beanstalk takes a packaged WAR file and automatically provisions load balanced, fault tolerant, auto-scaling elastic servers running a familiar Tomcat and Apache stack. We'll discuss how to work with Elastic Beanstalk, the underlying architectural patternsfor getting the most from it, and integrating it into your development andtest workflow from Eclipse. The presentation will include a live demo. Who should attend: All are welcome, from those new to Java to experienced enterprise architects, and no previous experience of cloud computing or the Amazon platform is required. Agenda: 18:00: Doors Open18:30: A series of lightning talks from members of the London Java Community - Samir Talwar will present "Stream Powered" and Ged Byrne will present "How Can We Improve Technical Tests?"19:00: Main presentation - Matt Wood - Amazon Evangelist will present Amazon Beanstalk.20:30: Networking Please Note: Nearest tube: South KensingtonNearest Coffee Shop Starbucks, 65-71 Sloane Avenue should you arrive at the event early Special thanks to PlayFish and Amazon for sponsoring the LJC. PlayFish are generously allowing us to use their venue and getting the beer, whilst Amazon are going to be supplying the pizzas.
Please note this is an online prize draw and no actual meeting will take place. Win a free ticket to Cake's Agile World Conference - To take part in the promotion all you have to do is RSVP to this event on Meetup and complete the questions. This all day conference will demonstrate the virtues of the agile method, both from a technical development viewpoint and also from a financial business point of view. There will be a mix of talks and hands on practical workshops. Whether you are already using agile or new to agile, we can help you improve or adopt this popular method within your business. The Morning Session (9am to 1pm)The Keynote (9am to 10am)The Keynote talk will be delivered by Jan Machacek and Ian Brookes. Following the keynote, the morning session will include two tracks, the first track with talks for companies considering adopting agile and the second track for those that already use it but want to improve their agile process. Track 1 - New to Agile (10am to 1pm) The agile processAgile Financial TimesAgile and the public sector Track 2 - Improving Agile (10am to 1pm)Agile meetings/reviewsAgile testing techniques - delivered by Gav Winter ' The Test People'Agile teams The Afternoon Session (2pm to 5pm)The afternoon session is all about putting agile in to practice. Our workshops will give you a hands-on practical insight into the methods and practices that the agile project delivery requires to be integrated into your business successfully. Agile Financial TimesA unique insight into how you can achieve cost savings by developing software in an agile methodology instead of the traditional development approach.Product Backlog / Planning Poker & EstimatingHow to manage your product backlog and estimate project time scales in an agile method. Agile MeetingsHow to manage an agile development team and more importantly - keep them agile!- Morning stand up- Sprint planning- Sprint review- Sprint retrospective Agile TeamsDrawn from our own research in a number of agile case studies as well as other breakthrough team successes in sport, the emergency services and the military, we've developed the resulting insights into a framework to build a Breakthrough Agile Team in your organisation. Agile ContractsWe address the age-old question - "how can you manage contracts and tenders" whilst still keeping agile?. All booking information and details can be found on this page: http://events.constantcontact.com/register/event?llr=vb5yjycab&oeidk=a07e3y7wb9k509a9e95 Please note this is an online prize draw and no actual meeting will take place. Win a free ticket to Cake's Agile World Conference - To take part in the promotion all you have to do is RSVP to this event on Meetup and complete the questions.
The first annual Scala eXchange 2-day provides both high level presentations and low level follow-up tutorials/design discussions afterwards - making it one of the most exciting dates on the calendar of anyone passionate about Scala. Keynote speaker Martin Odersky is opening the conference, and among the Scala experts joining him over the two days will be James Strachan, plus many more the brightest and best names in Scala today. On top of this, there will also be a series of lightning talks from Enterprise Scala users in the community on everything from architecture overview, best practises, and favourite Scala features. Get more info here: http://skillsmatter.com/event/scala/scala-exchange-2011/js-1985 To take part in this raffle, RSVP to this event and in 15 words or less, tell us who you are most excited about at the Scala eXchange and why (not including Martin Odersky because that's too obvious).
PLEASE NOTE THIS IS A JBUG EVENT NOT AN LJC EVENT. WE ARE USING THE LJC TO GENERATE PUBLICITY OF THE EVENT. C2B2 ARE HANDLING THE ATTENDANCE TO THE EVENT. TO GUARANTEE A PLACE YOU MUST REGISTER YOUR DETAILS HERE: www.c2b2.co.uk/jbug JBUG is Back: June Event - JBoss 7 JBUG is back and to kick off the new user group we have lined up Dr Mark Little who heads up Middleware Engineering for Red Hat to share his vision of JBoss Everywhere. Mark will discuss and demonstrate Red Hats vision for how JBoss Enterprise Middleware will drive social, mobile, and cloud computing. This is a huge opportunity for the JBoss user community to hear where JBoss is going in the future. To continue in this theme we also have Matt Brasier, a hugely respected JBoss consultant who will delve into the new architecture coming with JBoss 7 and the new capabilities we should expect. We are also opening up the floor to anyone using JBoss who has a tale to share. We are looking for a number of lightening talks 5 15 minutes in length where you can share your experiences, problems owonderful solutions with the rest of the community. This is a huge opportunity to develop new or hone existing speaking skills.Don't forget to join JBUG on Meetup! Who should attend:Anyone interested in JBoss! Agenda:15:45 - 16:00 - Coffee, Welcome and Networking16:00 - 16:45 - Mark Little: JBoss Everywhere16:45 - 17:00 - Break, networking17:00 - 17:30 - 3-4 lightning sessions from the community17:30 - 18:00 - Matt Brasier: JBoss 7 - New Architecture and Capabilities18:00 - 19:00 - Beer, Pizza and NetworkingSpeakers:Dr. Mark Little Senior Director, Middleware Engineering, Red Hat Dr. Mark Little serves as the senior director engineering, middleware engineering at Red Hat. Prior to taking over this role in 2008, Little served as the SOA technical development manager and director of standards. Additionally, Mark was a distinguished engineer and chief architect and co-founder at Arjuna Technologies, a spin-off from HP. He has worked in the area of reliable distributed systems since the mid-80s with a PhD in fault-tolerant distributed systems, replication, and transactions. Matt Brasier - Principal Consultant - C2B2 Consulting Matt has worked as an enterprise Java professional services consultant for 6 years, helping customers ensure that their applications go live and meet their non-functional requirements, and has worked with customers ranging from small internet start ups to some of the largest players in the enterprise Java market. He provides in-depth specialist consultancy on performance tuning, scalability, troubleshooting and security of JBoss. Matt has spoken at a number of technical conferences, including TSSJS 2009, JUDCon Berlin and regularly runs technical workshops for C2B2 on JBoss. Lightning Talks:We are looking for members who want to get involved and do 5-15 minutes lightning talks on JBoss. Its a great opportunity to briefly present your thoughts on interesting topics about JBoss with no pressure of preparing the long presentation, powerpoint slides etc. Tell us your story, share your ideas and give the rest of the JBUG members some inspiration, or at least the topic for further discussion during the networking break with pizza and beer.If you are interested, please write up a short description of your talk and send it to Steve or Dominika on smillidge@c2b2.co.uk or dtasarz@c2b2.co.uk respectively. Any questions, dont hesitate to contact us! Venue:Atos Origin Office, 4 Triton Square , Regents Place, London NW1 3HGTriton Square is situated just off the Euston Road. Access to the building is from Euston Road or Longford Street and the main entrance is on the South West corner of the building. Atos Origin is situated on the upper floors. Lifts are available from the ground floor reception area. To London mainline stations and then underground to Warren Street, Great Portland Street or Euston Square stations. The offices are within a few minutes walk of these underground stations. It is also 5-10 minutes walk from Euston mainline station. PLEASE NOTE THIS IS A JBUG EVENT NOT AN LJC EVENT. WE ARE USING THE LJC TO GENERATE PUBLICITY OF THE EVENT. C2B2 ARE HANDLING THE ATTENDANCE TO THE EVENT. TO GUARANTEE A PLACE YOU MUST REGISTER YOUR DETAILS HERE: www.c2b2.co.uk/jbug
This is our monthly social gathering, which incorporates members of The London Java Community and Graduate Development Communities. This is an informal social evening most of the evening will be spent having ad-hoc informal discussions in small groups. We have booked out the top floor of the Porterhouse in Covent Garden http://www.porterhous ;..., the venue is beautiful and they have beers from all over the world. The event will kick off at 6:30 PM and usually goes on until around 11:30 with members coming and going at all times throughout the evening. We usually attract 50 70 members so it is a lively event in which members, both junior and senior, can connect in a relaxed atmosphere and set the development world to rights. This month's theme: Development War Stories. We've all heard of those horror stories on software development projects. The performance bug that couldn't be tracked down, the dreaded MUMPs programming language and the 16,000 line Java source file to name a few. But there's always a bright side to these disaster stories and that is we can learn not to repeat the mistakes of history. This month at the Developer Sessions we'll be listing war stories by community members up on a wall for us to discuss and learn from, lest we forget! This is a chance to come along and meet, and chat, with other members of the London Technical Community. It is a great chance to meet other developers and has attracted members of all levels, I'll also be onsite so if anyone is looking for free recruitment advice it's a great chance to come along for a chat.
Spring Roo Please note this is an event organised for the London Java Community, the presenter hasconfirmed that it is suitable for entry level developers and undergraduates. SkillsMatter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: http://skillsmatter.com/podcast/java-jee/spring-roo Special thanks to Cake for sponsoring the LJC. Cake are providing beer and pizzas for this event. Cake provides enterprise software development and agile mentoring services, please visit their site for more information: www.cakesolutions.net Jan Machek's Spring Roo talk will introduce the ideas behind Roo and their technical implementation. The talk will show the main architectural choices of the Roo applications, explain the Spring configuration under the hood. Looking beyond the usual object-oriented Spring code, Jan will show how Roo understands the structure of the application using the source-level annotations and how it separates out the custom code from the code it generates using the intra-type Aspects. To demonstrate all this, Jan will be showing how to use Roo to rapidly prototype your application and, once that's done, how to take your application beyond the prototype. To close, we will discuss the question on everyone's mind: "is Roo worth it?" Who should attend: - Developer's with Java experience and appreciation of complex (web) applications; some Spring and AOP experience would be helpful.- Graduates will enjoy the talk also - Jan will be mentioning computer science's favourite: expert systems. Agenda: 18:00: Doors Open18:30: A series of lightning talks from members of the London Java Community19:00: Main presentation - Jan Machek will present Spring Roo.20:30: Networking Bio: Jan Machek is the technical director at Cake Solutions, highly experienced Java enterprise architect, consultant and developer with very strong technical and team management skills. He works best in complex environments where his capable and assured grasp of issues and leadership qualities enable him to provide real value in managing and directing development to successful completion. Jan combines the deep insight of lean and agile management with the theoretical concepts of computer science, low-level programming, UNIX operating systems, RDBMSs and detailed knowledge of the contemporary Java EE frameworks with his authoring and speaking experience to mentor, drive and motivate large development teams. Jan has demonstrated his technical and agile management skills on numerous projects in the public and private sectors; working with the in-house teams as well as delivering projects at Cake Solutions. He has led teams through the perils of agile software delivery, bringing control and value to the business and the joy of programming back to the technical teams. Jan shares his agile leadership experience in publications for the NCC, at public events and at national conferences. Alongside several articles, Jan has authored 4 books; the most notable ones are Pro Spring and Pro Spring 2.5. He regularly speaks at conferences and developer events in the UK and abroad and he is the editor of the Open Source Journal. In his spare time, Jan likes to explore new programming languages and experiment with microcontrollers. Jan also competes in time trials and road races as a member of the Manchester Wheelers Cycling Club. Please Note: Nearest tube: BarbicanNearest Coffee Shop: Sun Coffee Shop, 55-63 Goswell Road, London, EC1V 7EN for if you arrive earlyFor after event drinks: The Slaughtered Lamb - 34-35 Great Sutton St, Clerkenwell, London, EC1V 0DX Special thanks to Cake for sponsoring the LJC. Cake are providing beer and pizzas for this event. Cake provides enterprise software development and agile mentoring services, please visit their site for more information:www.cakesolutions.net Please note SkillsMatter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: http://skillsmatter.com/podcast/java-jee/spring-roo
PLEASE NOTE THIS IS AN OSGI USERS' FORUM EVENT NOT AN LJC EVENT. WE ARE USING THE LJC TO GENERATE PUBLICITY OF THE EVENT. TO GUARANTEE A PLACE YOU MUST REGISTER YOUR DETAILS HERE: http://oufukmeet8.eventbrite.com/ OSGi Users' Forum Event - OSGi Development Tooling Panel OSGi Development Tooling is often cited as one of the main areas where people encounter difficulties. There is a significant effort going on from open source and commercial tooling teams to improve the OSGi Development experience. We have pulled together a number of the project leads and key contributors of OSGi Development tools for the next meeting.This is your opportunity to meet with the people behind the tools. You will have the opportunity to share your development challenges and issues and get answers from the experts along with learning and understanding from your peers. Each of the panel members will provide a brief overview of their tooling and then we will open it up for a panel discussion. So please come armed with your questions! The event is being supported by members of our community, Neil Bartlett and Simon Maple. Neil will be on the panel talking about BndTools, and Simon will be assisting with the OSGi free tooling provided by IBM and the RAD OSGi story. PLEASE NOTE THIS IS AN OSGI USERS' FORUM EVENT NOT AN LJC EVENT. WE ARE USING THE LJC TO GENERATE PUBLICITY OF THE EVENT. TO GUARANTEE A PLACE YOU MUST REGISTER YOUR DETAILS HERE: http://oufukmeet8.eventbrite.com/
This is the placeholder entry for the London Clojure Dojo. Signup is now being managed via EventWax. Signup links to follow in the comments
Please note this is an online monthly prize draw and no actual meeting will take place. Packt Publishing are a unique publishing company specializing in highly focused books on specific technologies and solutions - please visit their site to find out more about them: www.packtpub.com Each month we run a promotion with Packt in which LJC members will be selected at random to receive free books. This month we are offering 2 LJC members the chance to win; First Prize Winner will receive 1 print copy of his/her choiceRunner Up Winner - 1 ecopy of his/her choice There are a list of 6 books below. To take part in the promotion all you have to do is RSVP to this event on Meetup and complete the questions. Here are the books on offer this month, the winner will be picked at random and announced at the end of the month: Apache Roller 4.0 Beginner's GuideOSGi and Apache Felix 3.0 Beginner's GuideAlfresco 3 Web Content ManagementExt GWT 2.0: Beginner's GuideGoogle Web Toolkit 2 Application Development CookbookApache Wicket Cookbook To take part in the promotion all you have to do is RSVP to this event on Meetup and complete the questions. Please visit the Packt site at www.packtpub.com Congratulations to the winners of ourMay draw - George Profenza and Martin Velicky!! Good luck, Barry Cranford
JRebel maps your project workspace directly to your running application. When a developer makes a change to any class or resource in their IDE the change is immediately reflected in the application, skipping the build and redeploy phases. For further information see their site: http://www.zeroturnaround.com/jrebel We have two personal licenses of JRebel including their Enterprise Add-on (a combined value of $159 USD) to offer this month. To take part in the promotion all you have to do is RSVP to this event on Meetup and complete the questions. Congratulations to last month's winners - Abhijit and Simon Pink! Thanks,Barry
JVM Cloud Platforms Please note this is an event organised for the London Java Community, the presenter hasconfirmed that it is suitable for entry level developers and undergraduates. SkillsMatter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: http://skillsmatter.com/event/java-jee/jvm-cloud-platforms/js-1945 WSO2 Stratos Cloud Platform - Paul Fremantle Cloud platforms are going to be essential for developers to get the most out of Cloud. This session will help understand what is available, how cloud platforms work, how to evaluate Platfom as a Service and dive into the WSO2 Stratos Cloud platform. The session will be a combination of presentation and live demo. In the session, Paul will demonstrate Stratos, a complete cloud platform available as Open Source as well as running as-a-Service on the web. Paul will describe the multi-tenant and elastic features of Stratos as well as demonstrate the broad set of services available. Paul Fremantle is CTO and Co-Founder at WSO2, where he is part of the team that created Carbon (an OSGi-based open source middleware platform) and Stratos (an open source Cloud Platform). Paul is VP of the Apache Synapse project and an Apache Member. Paul has over 10 years experience contributing to Open Source projects and wrote his first line of Java in 1995. Paul also plays the tin whistle so you all better hope the demo system is working. Cloud Foundry - Peter Ledbrook The cloud is the big software development story of 2011 and now is the time to find out why. This talk will look at one of several cloud hosting solutions for Java web applications: Cloud Foundry from VMware. Learn how it works and what it means for you as a software developer. How does it impact application development? What are the benefits? These questions and more will be answered. This will mostly be a presentation with perhaps a small demo. I'll start by covering what a PaaS and give a brief overview of the current landscape. I'll then introduce Cloud Foundry and go into some of the detail of how it works. Most importantly, I'll be talking about how one writes Java applications for it and how developers have to change the way they think. If I have time, I'll finish up with a short demo of deploying a Grails application to Cloud Foundry. Peter Ledbrook is the Grails Advocate at SpringSource, now a division of VMware. He has been working with Java for well over 10 years now and has plenty of experience of deploy Java web applications. He was involved with Cloud Foundry several weeks before the beta announcement and has intimate knowledge of Cloud Foundry from a user's perspective. Who should attend: - Java developers with an interest in the Cloud- Integration or workflow developers interested in running their code in a cloud platform- Technical Architects with an interest in the Cloud- Undergraduates with an understanding of Java and enterprise middleware. Agenda: 18:00: Doors Open18:30: A series of lightning talks from members of the London Java Community19:00: Main presentation 1 - Paul Fremantle will present WSO2 Stratos CloudPlatform19:45: Main presentation 2 - Peter Ledbrook will presentCloud Foundry20:30: Networking Please Note: Nearest tube: BarbicanNearest Coffee Shop: Sun Coffee Shop, 55-63 Goswell Road, London, EC1V 7EN for if you arrive earlyFor after event drinks: The Slaughtered Lamb - 34-35 Great Sutton St, Clerkenwell, London, EC1V 0DX Please note this is an event organised for the London Java Community, the presenter hasconfirmed that it is suitable for entry level developers and undergraduates. SkillsMatter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: http://skillsmatter.com/event/java-jee/jvm-cloud-platforms/js-1945 ;
Schedule 5.45pm Welcome and informal chat6.15pm Introduction6.30pm Main talk8.00pm Q&A plus optional visit to a local bar Main talk summaryIan Grunert recently joined the software developer tools company Atlassian where he works on their agile testing tool Bonfire. Ian will talk about agile testing at Atlassian and his experiences as a graduate developer at Atlassian, being part of a winning FedEx team as well his own innovative ideas he works on during 20% time. Ian will go into detail about how agile testing is done at Atlassian, using Atlassians own products for everything they do (dogfooding). As well as a quick demo, Ian will cover the rationale behind Bonfire, the technical challenges behind building it and the future directions of this agile testing tool. Ian will also highlight the issues that automated testing across four browser extensions poses which he tackled in some very interesting ways. There will be time for questions and answer sessions which we will take to a local bar. Thank you.
This is our monthly social gathering, which incorporates members of The London Java Community and Graduate Development Communities. This is an informal social evening most of the evening will be spent having ad-hoc informal discussions in small groups. We have booked out the top floor of the Porterhouse in Covent Garden http://www.porterhous ;..., the venue is beautiful and they have beers from all over the world. The event will kick off at 6:30 PM and usually goes on until around 11:30 with members coming and going at all times throughout the evening. We usually attract 50 70 members so it is a lively event in which members, both junior and senior, can connect in a relaxed atmosphere and set the development world to rights. This is a chance to come along and meet, and chat, with other members of the London Technical Community. It is a great chance to meet other developers and has attracted members of all levels, I'll also be onsite so if anyone is looking for free recruitment advice it's a great chance to come along for a chat.
Infinspan, Data Grids and Cloud Storage - A joint LJC/JBUG event Please note this is a joint LJC/JBUG event. SkillsMatter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link:http://skillsmatter.com/podcast/home/infinspan-data-grids-cloud/js-2047 Manik Surtani will present "Infinspan, Data Grids and Cloud Storage" - A use-case driven talk on Infinispan, an LGPL licensed data grid platform for use as a distributed data cache, low-latency in-memory object database and cloud-ready datastore. This talk will focus on several popular usage patterns, explaining how these usage patterns work their way into common software designs we see today, and how the use of a data grid can bring benefits. For each pattern, specific details on setting up and tuning Infinispan to serve such a purpose will be discussed. The format will include a presentation and some sample code. Who should attend: - Java Developers- Technical Architects- Technically savvy CTOs Agenda: 18:00: Doors Open18:30: A series of lightning talks from members of the London Java Community19:00: Main presentation - Manik Surtani will present Infinspan, Data Grids and Cloud Storage20:30: Networking Bio:Manik Surtani is a core R&D engineer at JBoss, a division of Red Hat. He is the founder of the Infinispan project, which he currently leads. He is also the spec lead of JSR 347 (Data Grids for the Java Platform), and represents Red Hat on the Expert Group of JSR 107 (Temporary caching for Java). His interests lie in cloud and distributed computing, autonomous systems and highly available computing. He has a background in artificial intelligence and neural networks, a field he left behind when he moved from academic circles to the commercial world. Since then, he's been working with Java-related technologies, first for a startup focusing on knowledge management and information exchange, and later for a large London-based consultancy as a tech lead focused on e-commerce applications on large Java EE and peer-to-peer technology. Surtani is a strong proponent of open source development methodologies, ethos, and collaborative processes, and has been involved in open source since his first forays into computing. Please Note: Nearest tube: BarbicanNearest Coffee Shop: Sun Coffee Shop, 55-63 Goswell Road, London, EC1V 7EN for if you arrive earlyFor after event drinks: The Slaughtered Lamb - 34-35 Great Sutton St, Clerkenwell, London, EC1V 0DX Please note this is a joint LJC/JBUG event. SkillsMatter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link:http://skillsmatter.com/podcast/home/infinspan-data-grids-cloud/js-2047
This is the placeholder entry for the London Clojure Dojo. Signup is now being managed via EventWax. Signup links to follow in the comments
Please note this is an online monthly prize draw and no actual meeting will take place. There are those that have claimed that Java is getting a little bit long in the tooth. This month's selection of Packt Publishing'sbooks show just how fresh and relevant Java is for the future. You can read more on our new Book Club blog. Apache Wicket CookbookAndroid User Interface Development: Beginner's GuideNetBeans IDE 7 CookbookBlackBerry Java Application DevelopmentEJB 3.1 CookbookOracle Coherence 3.5 If you'd like the chance to win one of these books all you have to do is RSVP to this event and complete the questions. Packt Publishingare a unique publishing company specialising in highly focused books on specific technologies and solutions - please visit their site to find out more about them: www.packtpub.com Each month we run a promotion with Packt in which LJC members will be selected at random to receive free books. This month we are offering 2 LJC members the chance to win; First Prize Winner will receive 1 print copy of his/her choiceRunner Up Winner - 1 ecopy of his/her choice Please visit the Packt site at www.packtpub.com Congratulations to the winners of ourJune draw - Richard Melville and Kelvin Porter! Good luck, Barry Cranford
Clojure and Incanter: A joint LJC/LCUG event Please note this is a joint LJC/LCUG event. SkillsMatter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: http://skillsmatter.com/podcast/home/iincanter-clojure/js-1980 This presentation covers the Clojure programming language and the Incanter system for statistical computing and will be presented by Ben Evans. Clojure is a Lisp dialect which runs on top of the JVM, and so our treatment is especially geared towards developers who are already proficient in the Java language and environment Attendees will gain an understanding of:* The pillars and fundamentals of Clojure* Clojure's novel language features and its powerful programming model* Introduction to Incanter* Why Clojure is a good language for statistical computing* Exploring datsets with Incanter* Interfacing with Excel and graphing and charting libraries Who should attend: - Java Developers- Developers interested in modern implementations of Lisp or alternative JVM languages- Technical architects, infrastructure engineers and others who need to deal with large amounts of data Agenda: 18:00: Doors Open18:30: A series of lightning talks from members of the London Java Community19:00: Main presentation - Ben Evans will present Clojure and Incanter.20:30: Networking Bio: Ben is one of the leaders of the LJC and GDC. He has had a varied and interesting career in technology - he was the lead performance testing engineer for the Google IPO (the largest auction ever conducted), worked on the initial UK trials of 3G networks with BT, built award-winning websites for some of Hollywood's biggest hits of the 90s, rearchitected and reimagined technology helping some of the most vulnerable people in the UK and has worked on everything from some of the UKs very first ecommerce sites, through to multi-billion dollar FX trading systems. He is one of the authors of "The Well-Grounded Java Developer". Please Note: Nearest tube: BarbicanNearest Coffee Shop: Sun Coffee Shop, 55-63 Goswell Road, London, EC1V 7EN for if you arrive earlyFor after event drinks: The Slaughtered Lamb - 34-35 Great Sutton St, Clerkenwell, London, EC1V 0DX Please note this is a joint LJC/LCUG event. SkillsMatter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: http://skillsmatter.com/podcast/home/iincanter-clojure/js-1980
This is our monthly social gathering, which incorporates members of The London Java Community and Graduate Development Communities. This is an informal social evening most of the evening will be spent having ad-hoc informal discussions in small groups. We have booked out the top floor of the Porterhouse in Covent Garden http://www.porterhous ;..., the venue is beautiful and they have beers from all over the world. The event will kick off at 6:30 PM and usually goes on until around 11:30 with members coming and going at all times throughout the evening. We usually attract 50 70 members so it is a lively event in which members, both junior and senior, can connect in a relaxed atmosphere and set the development world to rights. This is a chance to come along and meet, and chat, with other members of the London Technical Community. It is a great chance to meet other developers and has attracted members of all levels, I'll also be onsite so if anyone is looking for free recruitment advice it's a great chance to come along for a chat.
We are happy to announce the LJC Code Share for August. It is the first in a series of events focusing simply on the code. Not writing code, not code tools, but looking at the code itself. The event is for anybody who cares about the code. You may be a beginner, looking to improve. You might be a grizzled old hacker who want to show how it's done. We all have something to give and plenty to gain. We will be reading code rather than writing it. Anybody who has something to share should just bring it along for everybody to see. Is it an elegant solution you're proud of? Let us all see it. Are you facing a particularly knotty problem? Perhaps we can help. Are you nervous about the code you are submitting for job applications? Get some positive feedback (and perhaps a little constructive criticism). Do you have some have some other thoughts or ideas? If it's about the code then we want to hear about it. The format is open, driven by what people want to share. To help things along we will have a theme and a challenge. This month the theme is "achieving flow" and the challenge is "pulling tables out of a Word document." Achieving Flow Coding is all about achieving flow. When programming we have to get ourselves into the zone. We have to reach a state of flow where we can hold all of the objects, variables and statements can pour out of our heads, through our fingers and into the editor. The code we produce also needs to flow through so many forms and states. At one moment a person may be represented by a screen of fields. Then as a set of key-value pairs held in memory or as url-encoded text. Then as an XML document traversing an ESB finally to be bottled for weeks or months in the tables of a relational database. The person is always there, but the forms and representations are in a constant state of flux. In our code sharing meet up we want to get to the heart of what programming is all about. We need to achieve flow to create code. Code is created to achieve flow. The moments when it all flows freely are the moments we are always seeking. How do you achieve flow? Do you have some code that flows nicely? What impedes the flow? Let's get together and let the sharing flow. The Coding Challange: Pulling Tables from a Word Document The challange for this month is Pulling Tables from a Word Document. Imagine that you have lots of Word documents and those documents contain lots of tables. Write some code to pull the data out of those tables and make them available for your code. You can save the document in any format provided by Word: .DOC, .RTF, .HTML or any other format that Word will save.
PLEASE NOTE THIS IS A JBUG EVENT NOT AN LJC EVENT. WE ARE USING THE LJC TO GENERATE PUBLICITY OF THE EVENT. C2B2 ARE HANDLING THE ATTENDANCE TO THE EVENT. TO GUARANTEE A PLACE YOU MUST REGISTER YOUR DETAILS HERE: www.c2b2.co.uk/jbug JBoss AS7 Hackathon August JBUG is devoted to JBoss 7. Again! Unless youve been living in a cave youll have noticed that it has just been released. Theres lots of hype, tweets, blogs and videos but is it any good? We aim to find out by hosting a hackathon to get to grips with JBoss 7. The idea is simple: we get a bunch of people in a room, fire up a bunch of EC2 instances and we try out JBoss 7 together.No PresentationsNo MarketingNo Vendor HypeNo Agenda Just JBoss 7, Amazon, your laptop and you. And probably a lot of head scratching! MCd by an experienced JBoss consultant we will get JBoss 7 running and see what it can do. The number of places for this event is limited so register now (link above and below) to secure your place! Some things we might try (although its up to you):Get it runningMess with some JEE6 featuresBuild a big clusterTry out the new Domain mode and run servers on each others laptopsSee if its as fast as it claims to beOr just eat pizza and drink beer and laugh at the chaosThe possibilities are endless! Agenda:The event starts at 5pm and will end around 7-8pm with some pizza, beers and networking. Venue:The Skills Matter eXchangeTetris Room116-120 Goswell RoadLondon, EC1V 7DP Notes:Please don't forget to bring your own laptop! PLEASE NOTE THIS IS A JBUG EVENT NOT AN LJC EVENT. WE ARE USING THE LJC TO GENERATE PUBLICITY OF THE EVENT. C2B2 ARE HANDLING THE ATTENDANCE TO THE EVENT. TO GUARANTEE A PLACE YOU MUST REGISTER YOUR DETAILS HERE: www.c2b2.co.uk/jbug
Please note this is an online monthly prize draw and no actual meeting will take place. We all know and love Java, and we can be better Java programmers if we take the time to learn some complementary tools. This months selection of books from Packt Publishing give a flavour of whats available. Please see the list of books available to win here - LJC Book Club Each month we run a promotion with Packt in which LJC members will be selected at random to receive free books. This month we are offering 2 LJC members the chance to win; First Prize Winner will receive 1 print copy of his/her choiceRunner Up Winner - 1 ecopy of his/her choice If youd like the chance to win one of the available books then RSVP to this months Prize Draw Meetup and complete the questions. Packt Publishingare a unique publishing company specialising in highly focused books on specific technologies and solutions - please visit their site to find out more about them: www.packtpub.com Congratulations to the winners of ourJuly draw - Andrew Cowper and Karl Bennett! Good luck, Barry Cranford
Prize Draw: Winone Free Ticket to the OSGi Conference, Germany - 48 Hour Raffle Please note this is an online prize draw and no actual meeting will take place. IBM have been kind enough to donate a ticket for the OSGi conference. All you have to do is RSVP and answer the questions within the next 48 hours and one name will be drawn and a lucky winner will win. General InformationDate: September 20 & 21, 2011 Location: Darmstadt, Germany at Deutsche Telekom facilities (near Frankfurt, about 35 Km south) This year the event will focus on OSGi Evolution & Success. The event will not only provide the latest news about the OSGi Alliance and its current spec work, but also explore how organizations are implementing and benefiting from using OSGi standards based architectures in their IT infrastructures, products, and services. This conference event will include: -Technology oriented presentations related to the use of OSGi technology in multiple markets-Tutorials-Technical and business case studies Who Should Attend: The event is expected to attract enterprise and embedded software architects, IT decision makers and software leaders as well as developers who are using OSGi as the basis for their next generation IT infrastructure. For more info see the event homepage -> http://www.osgi.org/CommunityEvent2011/HomePage To take part in the promotion all you have to do is RSVP to this event on Meetup and complete the questions. Best of luck!
This is our monthly social gathering, which incorporates members of The London Java Community and Graduate Development Communities. This is an informal social evening most of the evening will be spent having ad-hoc informal discussions in small groups. We have a new venue this month - The Slug and Lettuce, 19/20 Hanover Street, London - http://www.slugandlettuce.co.uk/hanover_street/. The new venue has a nicely sized function room with its own private bar! There are some great offers on beer! The event will kick off at 6:30 PM and usually goes on until around 11:30 with members coming and going at all times throughout the evening. We usually attract 50 70 members so it is a lively event in which members, both junior and senior, can connect in a relaxed atmosphere and set the development world to rights. This is a chance to come along and meet, and chat, with other members of the London Technical Community. It is a great chance to meet other developers and has attracted members of all levels, I'll also be onsite so if anyone is looking for free recruitment advice it's a great chance to come along for a chat.
Prize Draw: Winone Free Pass to Devoxx 2011 - The Java Community Conference Please note this is an online prize draw and no actual meeting will take place. Devoxx 2011, sponsors of the LJC, are offering you the chance to winone free pass to Devoxx 2011 - The Java Community Conference - which is on November 14th - 18th inMetropolis, Antwerp - Please click here for details and to see schedule of event. To take part in the promotion all you have to do is RSVP to this event on Meetup and complete the questions. Best of luck.
Please note this is an online monthly prize draw and no actual meeting will take place. Packt Publishing are accepting nominations for the 2011 Open Source awards until September 9th. The contest provides an established platform for recognising and supporting open source projects and has paid out over $100,000 in prize money over the last 5 years. Looking back at the 2010 results I cant help but notice a lack of Java presence. The 2010 winners seem to be predominantly implemented using PHP. This year I think we should use our nominations and votes to see more Open Source Java projects on the winners podium. Personally Ive already nominated the Disruptor project as the most promising. This year the prize fund is $24,000 and the public vote is more influential so its worth the effort. To help everyone think of other possible nominations this months book selections demonstrate some of the strong Java contenders in three of the available categories. Please see the list of books available to win here - LJC Book Club Each month we run a promotion with Packt in which LJC members will be selected at random to receive free books. This month we are offering 2 LJC members the chance to win; First Prize Winner will receive 1 print copy of his/her choiceRunner Up Winner - 1 ecopy of his/her choice If youd like the chance to win one of the available books then RSVP to this months Prize Draw Meetup and complete the questions. Packt Publishingare a unique publishing company specialising in highly focused books on specific technologies and solutions - please visit their site to find out more about them: www.packtpub.com Congratulations to the winners of ourAugust draw - Chris Kimpton and Alex McLintock! Good luck, Barry Cranford
Understanding the Disruptor, a Beginner's Guide to Hardcore Concurrency The Disruptor is new open-source concurrency framework, designed as a high performance mechanism for inter-thread messaging. It was developed at LMAX as part of our efforts to build the world's fastest financial exchange. Using the Disruptor as an example, this talk will explain of some of the more detailed and less understood areas of concurrency, such as memory barriers and cache coherency. These concepts are often regarded as scary complex magic only accessible by wizards like Doug Lea and Cliff Click. Our talk will try and demystify them and show that concurrency can be understood by us mere mortal programmers. Who should attend:Any Developer interested in Concurrency. Bios: Trisha Gee is a developer at LMAX, the London Multi Asset eXchange. She's been working in financial markets for the last 5 years or so, but a fear of boredom and healthy amount of job-hopping before then has given her a wide breadth of experience, in a range of industries, over the 10+ years she's been a professional developer. Currently trying to get her head around low-latency, high performance coding whilst also keeping her fingers in the other pies LMAX has to offer, such as continuous delivery and agile. Trisha is heavily involved in the London Java Community and the Graduate Development Community, she believes we shouldn't all have to make the same mistakes again and again. Mike Barker is currently a lead developer at London Multi-Asset eXchange (LMAX) where he spends most of his time scratching his head while thinking about simpler and faster solutions. Intermingled with travelling to various countries around the world, Michael's 10+ years of experience has been spent battling unnecessary complexity across a variety of industries (finance, telecoms, government) and in whatever technology that happens to have been hurled in his direction (Java/JavaEE, C++, .NET). Michael is also a sporadic Open Source contributor having dropped patches into a number of OSS projects including PostgreSQL, JBoss, GNU Classpath and most recently Mono. Agenda: 18:00: Doors Open18:30: A series of lightning talks from members of the London Java Community - Titles to follow...19:00: Main presentation - Mike Barker and Trisha Gee will present "Understanding the Disruptor, a Beginner's Guide to Hardcore Concurrency".20:30: Networking Please Note: Nearest tube: South KensingtonNearest Coffee Shop Starbucks, 65-71 Sloane Avenue should you arrive at the event early Special thanks to Playfish and JAX London. Playfish are generously allowing us to use their venue and sponsoring beers and wine, whilst JAX London are getting the pizzas in.
Decisions, Decisions October's Theme isMaking Decisions Programmers who remember to consider the business impact of their decisions are worth their weight in gold. Steve McConnelCode Complete 2 When writing code it is the decisions that we make that really matter. What we type is secondary, the result of those decisions. When reading code what we are really interested in is seeing what decisions were made. What choices were made? Were they the right choices? Each module is then designed to hide such a decision from the others. Since, in most cases, design decisions transcend time of execution, modules will not correspond to steps in the processing. David ParnasOn the Criteria To Be Used in Decomposing Systems into Modules Sometimes the author will want to hide their decisions from us. This is the goal of encapsulation in Object Oriented design. This can make the code harder to read, but can also make it more interesting. When reading the code we are like detectives who can see the means but must work to uncover the motive. Fixing bugs is only important when the value of having the bug fixed exceeds the cost of the fixing it. Joel SpolskyHard-assed Bug Fixin' In the hardcommercialworldthe hardest decisions are about what we won't do. The economic reality is that resources are scarce. How can we tell the difference between avoiding wasteful gold plating andaccruingtechnical debt for which we will pay dearly in the long term? I hope you decide to join us on Wednesday 12th October. We've taken on board the advice from last month and hope to keep making it better. October's Coding Challenge is21 Lines of Python One of the key decisions we take when starting is a project is choosing the programming language. Surprisingly, many developers never choose to make this decision. Instead they just use the same one every time. To help us consider the consequences of our language choice we're gong to look at a spelling corrector written in just 21 lines of python. import re, collections def words(text): return re.findall('[a-z]+', text.lower()) def train(features): model = collections.defaultdict(lambda: 1) for f in features: model[f] += 1 return model NWORDS = train(words(file('big.txt').read())) alphabet = 'abcdefghijklmnopqrstuvwxyz' def edits1(word): splits = [(word[:i], word[i:]) for i in range(len(word) + 1)] deletes = [a + b[1:] for a, b in splits if b] transposes = [a + b[1] + b[0] + b[2:] for a, b in splits if len(b)>1] replaces = [a + c + b[1:] for a, b in splits for c in alphabet if b] inserts = [a + c + b for a, b in splits for c in alphabet] return set(deletes + transposes + replaces + inserts) def known_edits2(word): return set(e2 for e1 in edits1(word) for e2 in edits1(e1) if e2 in NWORDS) def known(words): return set(w for w in words if w in NWORDS) def correct(word): candidates = known([word]) or known(edits1(word)) or known_edits2(word) or [word] return max(candidates, key=NWORDS.get) The code defines the function correct, which takes a word as input and returns a likely correction of that word. For example: >>> correct('speling') 'spelling' >>> correct('korrecter') 'corrector' How many lines are needed toachievethe same in Java? We'd like to see as many versions in as many languages as possible, so that we can look at the differences. Does another language make it smaller, faster, more memory efficient or easier to comprehend? If you'd like to submit a translation please have it with us by Friday 9th October.
PLEASE NOTE THIS IS A JBUG EVENT NOT AN LJC EVENT. WE ARE USING THE LJC TO GENERATE PUBLICITY OF THE EVENT. C2B2 ARE HANDLING THE ATTENDANCE TO THE EVENT. TO GUARANTEE A PLACE YOU MUST REGISTER YOUR DETAILS HERE: www.c2b2.co.uk/jbug JBoss jBPM October JBUG is devoted to jBPM (Business Process Management System) - we have lined up Eric Schabell - JBoss Solution Architect and jBPM specialist to present the main talk. A lot has happened in the BPM area over the last few years, with the introduction of the BPMN 2.0 standard, the increasing interest in more dynamic and adaptive processes, integration with business rules and event processing, case management, etc. In his session, Eric will show you how jBPM5 tackles these challenges, discuss migration to this new platform and give you an overview of its most important features. As usual, we are also opening up the floor to anyone using JBoss who has a tale to share. We are looking for a number of lightning talks 5 - 15 minutes in length where you can share your experiences, problems or wonderful solutions with the rest of the community. This is a huge opportunity to develop new or hone existing speaking skills. If you are interested, please write up a short description of your talk and send it to jbug@c2b2.co.uk.Main talk: JBoss jBPM, the future is now for all your Business ProcessesA Business Process Management System (BPMS) offers you the capabilities to better manage and streamline your business processes. JBoss jBPM continues its vision in this area by offering a lightweight process engine for executing business processes, combined with the necessary services and tooling to support business processes in their entire lifecycles. This allows not only developers but also business users to manage your business processes more efficiently. A lot has happened in the BPM area over the last few years, with the introduction of the BPMN 2.0 standard, the increasing interest in more dynamic and adaptive processes, integration with business rules and event processing, case management, etc. In this session, we will show you how jBPM5 tackles these challenges, discuss migration to this new platform and give you an overview of its most important features. Who should attend: Anyone interested in JBoss! Agenda: 17:00 - 17:30 - Coffee, Welcome and Networking17:30 - 18:00 - Lightning talks18:00 - 18:15 - Break, networking18:15 - 19:15 - Eric Schabell: 'JBoss jBPM, the future is now for all your Business Processes'19:15 - 20:00 - Beer, Pizza and Networking Bio: Eric D. Schabell has been working within software development since 1998 for many different organizations such as IBM, Radboud University Nijmegen, SNS Bank and smaller software companies. He has always been involved in different roles within Open Source projects; Sourcemage Linux, eGroupWare, DocConversion, cmlFramework and is currently helping out in the JBoss jBPM project and lead on jBPM Migration project. He is employed as the Benelux JBoss Solution Architect for Red Hat, occasionally has taught JBoss jBPM/BRMS courses, is a guest lecturer at the Radboud University Nijmegen and publishes on Open Source topics. See Eric's website for more details. Notes: Venue - Atos Origin Office, 4 Triton Square , Regents Place, London NW1 3HG Triton Square is situated just off the Euston Road. Access to the building is from Euston Road or Longford Street and the main entrance is on the South West corner of the building. Atos Origin is situated on the upper floors. Lifts are available from the ground floor reception area. To London mainline stations and then underground to Warren Street, Great Portland Street or Euston Square stations. The offices are within a few minutes walk of these underground stations. It is also 5-10 minutes walk from Euston mainline station. PLEASE NOTE THIS IS A JBUG EVENT NOT AN LJC EVENT. WE ARE USING THE LJC TO GENERATE PUBLICITY OF THE EVENT. C2B2 ARE HANDLING THE ATTENDANCE TO THE EVENT. TO GUARANTEE A PLACE YOU MUST REGISTER YOUR DETAILS HERE: www.c2b2.co.uk/jbug
This is our monthly social gathering, which incorporates members of The London Java Community and Graduate Developer Communities. This is an informal social evening most of the evening will be spent having ad-hoc informal discussions in small groups. Last month the event was held in a new location - The Slug and Lettuce, 19/20 Hanover Street, London - http://www.slugandlettuce.co.uk/hanover_street/. We got some fantastic feedback from those who attended the event at the new venue and will be holding this month's event in the same great location. The venuehas a nicely sized function room with its own private bar, there are some great offers on beer, there is free wi-fi and it's easy to move around and chat to lots of people. Most importantly it is a friendly and relaxed environment where developers can get together to chat and network. The event will kick off at 6:30 PM and usually goes on until around 11:30 with members coming and going at all times throughout the evening. We usually attract 50 70 members so it is a lively event in which members, both junior and senior, can connect in a relaxed atmosphere and set the development world to rights. I'll also be onsite so if anyone is looking for free recruitment advice it's a great chance to come along for a chat.
Introduction to Git and Gerrit Please note this is an LJC event. SkillsMatter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: http://skillsmatter.com/podcast/home/intro-git-gerrit/js-2596 ; This event will introduce Git, a highly performant distributed version control system, and compare and contrast to centralised version control systems such as CVS, SVN, ClearCase, and Perforce. With a foundation of Git and its capabilities, we will then introduce Gerrit, a Git-based review system and see how it can easily be integrated into a Git workflow and benefit a fully automated build process. Presented by Matthew McCullough and Alex Blewitt. During the event, live demos of both using Git and Gerrit will be covered, and will include: * How to set up a Git repository* How to commit, branch and tag* How Git implements a new commit-referencing syntax* How to pull and push changes between repositories* How to set up and install Gerrit and Jenkins* How to push changes to Gerrit for review* How to comment on, reject, and approve changes in Gerrit* How to hook up builds with Jenkins, retrieving code from Git Who should attend: -Developers who want to get a better understanding of DVCS-Team Leads who want to integrate review-and-build into their workflow-Repository Managers who want to understand the impact of Git-Interested parties who want to know the advantages of Git over Mercurial (Hg), SVN, and CVS Why do you want to attend: Git as a DVCS has many advantages for you the developer, here are just a few. 1.) It's Distributed: So you can make commits even when you are not online and have a complete history of changes.2.) Easier branching and merging: Git supports easy local branching so you can make experimental branches (which have their own histories) and then merge them back into the main branch when you're ready.3.) Better interop with the filesystem: Normal commands like mv, cp, rm can be used as Git doesnt track files individually." Agenda: 18:00: Doors Open18:30: A series of lightning talks from members of the London Java Community19:00: Main presentation - Matthew McCullough and Alex Blewitt will present Introduction to Git and Gerrit.20:30: Networking Bios: Matthew McCullough is an energetic 15 year veteran of enterprise software development, world-traveling open source educator, and co-founder of Ambient Ideas, LLC, a US consultancy. Matthew currently is the trainer for GitHub.com, author of the Git Master Class series for O'Reilly, speaker on the No Fluff Just Stuff tour, author of three of the top 10 DZone RefCards, including the Git RefCard, and President of the Denver Open Source Users Group. His current topics of research center around project automation, including: build tools (Gradle, Leiningen, Maven, Ant), distributed version control (Git), testing frameworks (Geb, Spock), continuous integration (Jenkins) and code quality metrics (Sonar). Alex Blewitt Dr Alex Blewitt is passionate supporter of both OSGi and Eclipse, having first been introduced before the release of Eclipse 1.0, and getting involved in the open-source project just before the OSGi transition happened with the release of Eclipse 3.0. He was nominated (and a top three finalist) for Eclipse Ambassador in 2007, as recognition of his contributions as chief editor EclipseZone. Alex spent many years working with Java, having founded International Object Solutions Limited in 1997, just after Java 1.1 was released. Now he spends his time development on mobile platforms at Bandlem Limited, which he founded in 2010. Alex currently writes for InfoQ covering both OSGi and Eclipse, and continues to develop modular applications in his spare time.His ObjectivEClipse project was used as the basis for the Sony Snap Developer IDE, and many are using the ZFS port on OSX, which he maintains. In what little time he has left over, he spends time with his young family and has been known to take them flying if the weather's nice. Please Note: Nearest tube: BarbicanNearest Coffee Shop: Sun Coffee Shop, 55-63 Goswell Road, London, EC1V 7EN for if you arrive earlyFor after event drinks: The Slaughtered Lamb - 34-35 Great Sutton St, Clerkenwell, London, EC1V 0DX Please note this is an LJC event. SkillsMatter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: http://skillsmatter.com/podcast/home/intro-git-gerrit/js-2596 ;
PLEASE NOTE THIS IS A C2B2 EVENT NOT AN LJC EVENT. WE ARE USING THE LJC TO GENERATE PUBLICITY OF THE EVENT. C2B2 ARE HANDLING THE ATTENDANCE TO THE EVENT. TO GUARANTEE A PLACE YOU MUST REGISTER YOUR DETAILS HERE: www.c2b2.co.uk/coherence2011 C2B2 Event: Data Grids & Oracle Coherence: Free Hands-on Technical Workshop Does system latency cost you money? Can you maintain performance in response to rapid peaks in customer traffic? Does the thought of a system outage keep you awake at night? You heard about data grids but feel like you want to learn more and try some data grid technology for yourself? Come to one of our Coherence workshops and discover how Oracle Coherence can give you linear scalability across multiple servers, adding more capacity as demand increases, and providing data redundancy to protect against system failures. The number of places for this event is limited so register now (link above and below) to secure your place! Agenda: The workshops will be split into two sessions:Morning: Data Grids Explained' - presentation.Afternoon: Hands-on Labs' on Amazon EC2, using Oracle Coherence. Morning Session:09:30 - 10:00 Arrival, coffee and networking10:00 - 10:45 Extreme Performance, Scalability and Availability challenges10:45 - 11:00 Coffee and networking11:00 - 11:45 Data and Compute Grids - what are they good for?11:45 - 12:30 Coherence at Scale12:30 - 13:30 Lunch Afternoon Session:13:30 - 14:15 Hands on with Oracle Coherence (Coherence first steps)14:15 - 15:00 Coffee and Networking15:00 - 15:50 Hands on with Oracle Coherence (Elastic Scaling of the Coherence Grid)15:50 - 16:00 Wrap Up Venue: Oracle Corporation UK Ltd.One South Place, LondonEC2M 2RB Notes: Please see here for more details -www.c2b2.co.uk/coherence2011 PLEASE NOTE THIS IS A C2B2 EVENT NOT AN LJC EVENT. WE ARE USING THE LJC TO GENERATE PUBLICITY OF THE EVENT. C2B2 ARE HANDLING THE ATTENDANCE TO THE EVENT. TO GUARANTEE A PLACE YOU MUST REGISTER YOUR DETAILS HERE: www.c2b2.co.uk/coherence2011
Please note this is an online monthly prize draw and no actual meeting will take place. As a Java developer you have to stay ahead. Its just too easy to grow complacent because the Java ecosystem has been rather settled for the last few years. Weve all grown comfortable with our lightweight containers and our object-relational-mappings, but be careful. The world of software turns quickly, and before you know it every job advertisement will contain a list of technologies you just dont know. Thats where reading comes in. We are well served by some excellent publishers. This months selection of books from Packt Publishing focus on some of the areas that might blind side the unwary developer because they looked to be dead. Youll notice that Ive dropped in a couple of LITE books this month. Thats because I like them. If you want to keep up to date with new stuff these are a good option. They cost less, focus on just the important stuff and come out earlier. That makes them ideal for staying ahead of the curve. Please see the list of books available to win here -LJC Book Club Each month we run a promotion with Packt in which LJC members will be selected at random to receive free books. This month we are offering 2 LJC members the chance to win; First Prize Winner will receive 1 print copy of his/her choiceRunner Up Winner - 1 ecopy of his/her choice If youd like the chance to win one of the available books then RSVP to this months Prize Draw Meetup and complete the questions. Packt Publishingare a unique publishing company specialising in highly focused books on specific technologies and solutions - please visit their site to find out more about them:www.packtpub.com Congratulations to the winners of ourSeptember draw - Onkar Joshi and Nik Gehring! Good luck, Barry Cranford
PLEASE NOTE THIS IS A JAX LONDON EVENT NOT AN LJC EVENT. WE ARE USING THE LJC TO GENERATE PUBLICITY OF THE EVENT. JAX LONDON ARE HANDLING THE ATTENDANCE TO THE EVENT. TO GUARANTEE A PLACE YOU MUST REGISTER YOUR DETAILS HERE:http://www.amiando.com/jaxlondoncomnight.html JAX London: FREE to attend Community Night JAX London is hosting a FREE to attend Community Night on 1st November. This is an addition to the main conference where the organizers open the doors to all in the Java community. So if you can't make the main conference but still want hear from some of the great speakers on offer, come along from 6pm. There are sessions from Java Champion Adam Bien, Oracle's Frederic Ohrstrom and Sam Le Berrigaud of Community Night sponsor, Atlassian. Join us from 6pm for drinks, eats and great activities, including: Java Live EE Hacking Adam Bien,Independant Consultant, Java EE Expert From JSF 2 UI over EJB 3.1, REST, and CDI to JPA 2, with unit tests in one hour from scratch, and without wizards, templates or code generation. This feat is rarely possible with any other platform, but it is business as usual in Java EE 6. This session shows new Java EE 6 features in a continuous demo style. Attendees' questions will be answered with (working) code. The pragmatic combination of EJB 3.1, JPA 2.0, Bean Validation, Context and Dependency Injection, and JAX-RS (REST) will be covered during an incremental demo and is especially interesting to Java EE developers and architects: JSF 2, CDI, and EJB 3.1 interaction REST/JSON integration Validation and data binding Interceptors, stereotypes, and producers Real world tips and tricks OpenJDK Build Workshop Fredrik Ohrstrom, Oracle OpenJDK is supposed to be an open source project but very few people haveactually managed to compile the original OpenJDK sources. We are now rewriting the makefiles and adding a configure script to make it easier for newcontributors to participate in OpenJDK. Come to this workshop and we will build the OpenJDK together, on my laptopas well as yours, and we will add a small feature to the OpenJDK. The road to DVCS, potholes and all All the cool kids are talking about distributed version control these days - tools like Git and Mercurial, and services such as Bitbucket and GitHub. But what are the benefits and pitfalls of moving serious projects and teams from centralised version control systems to distributed systems? Steve will talk about this subject from several perspectives based on prior experience - that of an independent developer, a former enterprise software team lead, and an open source project lead. This isn't a practical training course on a specific DVCS system, although elements will be mentioned where relevant. Prior DVCS experience is not required.<strong style="color : #89b0f0">Community Night is free to attend, but you must register in advance at: http://www.amiando.com/jaxlondoncomnight.ht... PLEASE NOTE THIS IS A JAX LONDON EVENT NOT AN LJC EVENT. WE ARE USING THE LJC TO GENERATE PUBLICITY OF THE EVENT. JAX LONDON ARE HANDLING THE ATTENDANCE TO THE EVENT. TO GUARANTEE A PLACE YOU MUST REGISTER YOUR DETAILS HERE: http://www.amiando.com/jaxlondoncomnight.html
Solving Problems The theme for November's Code Share is Solving Problems. The programmers job is to solve problems with code. Problem solving in fact is a universal endeavour. We just happen to be different because we use computers to solve the problems we deal with. Robert L Glass in Software Conflict 2.0(1990) Why do we write code? To solve problems. The best code is the code that solves the most important problems. I looked into some of the recent books that describe design patterns, assuming that they would address recurring code designs for real-world phenomenon. Some of the patterns do,like the controller pattern, but too many others, such as the factory pattern,address problems that are created by the programming language itself. Leo Brodie in the preface toThinking Forth(2004) We need to be careful, because sometimes weinadvertentlycreate new ones. Those that follow us can spend more time solving the problems we created rather than moving forward the solutions we provided. We do pay a great deal of of attention to techniques that areessentiallysyntactic and notational. That leaves us... paying to little attention to the incalculable complexity of the real world. Our problems and requirements are in the world, not in the computer. We must focus on them directly, and describe them conscientiously. Michael Jackson in Problem Frames(2001) When we read code we need to ask ourselves some important questions: What problem is being solved? How important is the problem being solved? How effectively is the problem reflected in the code? Does the code show the concerns that need to be addressed to deliver results in the real world? How clear does the code make the technical solution? Does it bury the important aspects of the design below layers of abstraction? November challange: Solving Soduku The complexity of the Soduku puzzle is not incalculable, but the creation of soduku solvers has much to teach us. One again we are going to use a python solution by Peter Norvig as a starting point: ## Solve Every Sudoku Puzzle ## See http://norvig.com/sudoku.html ## Throughout this program we have: ## r is a row, e.g. 'A' ## c is a column, e.g. '3' ## s is a square, e.g. 'A3' ## d is a digit, e.g. '9' ## u is a unit, e.g. ['A1','B1','C1','D1','E1','F1','G1','H1','I1'] ## grid is a grid,e.g. 81 non-blank chars, e.g. starting with '.18...7... ## values is a dict of possible values, e.g. {'A1':'12349', 'A2':'8', ...} def cross(A, B): "Cross product of elements in A and elements in B." return [a+b for a in A for b in B] digits = '123456789' rows = 'ABCDEFGHI' cols = digits squares = cross(rows, cols) unitlist = ([cross(rows, c) for c in cols] + [cross(r, cols) for r in rows] + [cross(rs, cs) for rs in ('ABC','DEF','GHI') for cs in ('123','456','789')]) units = dict((s, [u for u in unitlist if s in u]) for s in squares) peers = dict((s, set(sum(units[s],[]))-set([s])) for s in squares) ################ Unit Tests ################ def test(): "A set of tests that must pass." assert len(squares) == 81 assert len(unitlist) == 27 assert all(len(units[s]) == 3 for s in squares) assert all(len(peers[s]) == 20 for s in squares) assert units['C2'] == [['A2', 'B2', 'C2', 'D2', 'E2', 'F2', 'G2', 'H2', 'I2'], ['C1', 'C2', 'C3', 'C4', 'C5', 'C6', 'C7', 'C8', 'C9'], ['A1', 'A2', 'A3', 'B1', 'B2', 'B3', 'C1', 'C2', 'C3']] assert peers['C2'] == set(['A2', 'B2', 'D2', 'E2', 'F2', 'G2', 'H2', 'I2', 'C1', 'C3', 'C4', 'C5', 'C6', 'C7', 'C8', 'C9', 'A1', 'A3', 'B1', 'B3']) print 'All tests pass.' ################ Parse a Grid ################ def parse_grid(grid): """Convert grid to a dict of possible values, {square: digits}, or return False if a contradiction is detected.""" ## To start, every square can be any digit; then assign values from the grid. values = dict((s, digits) for s in squares) for s,d in grid_values(grid).items(): if d in digits and not assign(values, s, d): return False ## (Fail if we can't assign d to square s.) return values def grid_values(grid): "Convert grid into a dict of {square: char} with '0' or '.' for empties." chars = [c for c in grid if c in digits or c in '0.'] assert len(chars) == 81 return dict(zip(squares, chars)) ################ Constraint Propagation ################ def assign(values, s, d): """Eliminate all the other values (except d) from values[s] and propagate. Return values, except return False if a contradiction is detected.""" other_values = values[s].replace(d, '') if all(eliminate(values, s, d2) for d2 in other_values): return values else: return False def eliminate(values, s, d): """Eliminate d from values[s]; propagate when values or places <= 2. Return values, except return False if a contradiction is detected.""" if d not in values[s]: return values ## Already eliminated values[s] = values[s].replace(d,'') ## (1) If a square s is reduced to one value d2, then eliminate d2 from the peers. if len(values[s]) == 0: return False ## Contradiction: removed last value elif len(values[s]) == 1: d2 = values[s] if not all(eliminate(values, s2, d2) for s2 in peers[s]): return False ## (2) If a unit u is reduced to only one place for a value d, then put it there. for u in units[s]: dplaces = [s for s in u if d in values[s]] if len(dplaces) == 0: return False ## Contradiction: no place for this value elif len(dplaces) == 1: # d can only be in one place in unit; assign it there if not assign(values, dplaces[0], d): return False return values ################ Display as 2-D grid ################ def display(values): "Display these values as a 2-D grid." width = 1+max(len(values[s]) for s in squares) line = '+'.join(['-'*(width*3)]*3) for r in rows: print ''.join(values[r+c].center(width)+('|' if c in '36' else '') for c in cols) if r in 'CF': print line print ################ Search ################ def solve(grid): return search(parse_grid(grid)) def search(values): "Using depth-first search and propagation, try all possible values." if values is False: return False ## Failed earlier if all(len(values[s]) == 1 for s in squares): return values ## Solved! ## Chose the unfilled square s with the fewest possibilities n,s = min((len(values[s]), s) for s in squares if len(values[s]) > 1) return some(search(assign(values.copy(), s, d)) for d in values[s]) ################ Utilities ################ def some(seq): "Return some element of seq that is true." for e in seq: if e: return e return False def from_file(filename, sep='\n'): "Parse a file into a list of strings, separated by sep." return file(filename).read().strip().split(sep) def shuffled(seq): "Return a randomly shuffled copy of the input sequence." seq = list(seq) random.shuffle(seq) return seq ################ System test ################ import time, random def solve_all(grids, name='', showif=0.0): """Attempt to solve a sequence of grids. Report results. When showif is a number of seconds, display puzzles that take longer. When showif is None, don't display any puzzles.""" def time_solve(grid): start = time.clock() values = solve(grid) t = time.clock()-start ## Display puzzles that take long enough if showif is not None and t > showif: display(grid_values(grid)) if values: display(values) print '(%.2f seconds)\n' % t return (t, solved(values)) times, results = zip(*[time_solve(grid) for grid in grids]) N = len(grids) if N > 1: print "Solved %d of %d %s puzzles (avg %.2f secs (%d Hz), max %.2f secs)." % ( sum(results), N, name, sum(times)/N, N/sum(times), max(times)) def solved(values): "A puzzle is solved if each unit is a permutation of the digits 1 to 9." def unitsolved(unit): return set(values[s] for s in unit) == set(digits) return values is not False and all(unitsolved(unit) for unit in unitlist) def random_puzzle(N=17): """Make a random puzzle with N or more assignments. Restart on contradictions. Note the resulting puzzle is not guaranteed to be solvable, but empirically about 99.8% of them are solvable. Some have multiple solutions.""" values = dict((s, digits) for s in squares) for s in shuffled(squares): if not assign(values, s, random.choice(values[s])): break ds = [values[s] for s in squares if len(values[s]) == 1] if len(ds) >= N and len(set(ds)) >= 8: return ''.join(values[s] if len(values[s])==1 else '.' for s in squares) return random_puzzle(N) ## Give up and make a new puzzle grid1 = '003020600900305001001806400008102900700000008006708200002609500800203009005010300' grid2 = '4.....8.5.3..........7......2.....6.....8.4......1.......6.3.7.5..2.....1.4......' hard1 = '.....6....59.....82....8....45........3........6..3.54...325..6..................' if __name__ == '__main__': test() solve_all(from_file("easy50.txt", '========'), "easy", None) solve_all(from_file("top95.txt"), "hard", None) solve_all(from_file("hardest.txt"), "hardest", None) solve_all([random_puzzle() for _ in range(99)], "random", 100.0) ## References used: ## http://www.scanraid.com/BasicStrategies.htm ## http://www.sudokudragon.com/sudokustrategy.htm ## http://www.krazydad.com/blog/2005/09/29/an-index-of-sudoku-strategies/ ## http://www2.warwick.ac.uk/fac/sci/moac/currentstudents/peter_cock/python/sudoku/ Please have a go at creating your own soduku solver. Whatever you do, though, don't just translate the above code into another language. Take the time to understand the problem and possible solutions, then express your own solution in code as elegantly as you can. What's Going To Happen? On Monday 31st October, a couple of days before the share, we'll send out an email to everybody who has signed up. If you have any code to contribute please send it in a reply to that email. On Wednesday 2nd November, the Code Share itself, we will all have a couple of short presentations. This will be followed by breaking out into groups to cast a critical eye over the code for some solutions. We will print these out, so you won't have to bring a laptop. Afterwards we will come back together as a group to discuss what we have learned. After the event we will be heading to the Half Moon,213-223 Mile End Road, Mile End, Greater London, E1 4AA -http://www.jdwetherspoon.co.uk/home/pubs/the-half-moon - for drinks/networking. ThoughtWorks are delighted to be sponsors of the November Code Share! This is a joint event with the Graduate Developer Group - http://www.meetup.com/grad-dc/events/38473732/ -providing an opportunity for both experienced developers and newcomers to the profession to share points of view.
This is our monthly social gathering, which incorporates members of The London Java Community and Graduate Developer Communities. This is an informal social evening most of the evening will be spent having ad-hoc informal discussions in small groups. This month's Developer Sessions will be in a different location - for this month only - The Slug and Lettuce, County Hall, Waterloo, London -http://www.slugandlettuce.co.uk/county_hall/We have use of the large basement function room. The pub has a friendly and relaxed environment where developers can get together to chat and network. The event will kick off at 6:30 PM and usually goes on until around 11:30 with members coming and going at all times throughout the evening. We usually attract 50 70 members so it is a lively event in which members, both junior and senior, can connect in a relaxed atmosphere and set the development world to rights. This month we will be celebrating the 10th birthday of Eclipse. The event will be kindly sponsored by Eclipse and refreshments will be provided - so do come and raise a glass! I'll also be onsite so if anyone is looking for free recruitment advice it's a great chance to come along for a chat.
Details of the Conference sessions proposed are being placed on the LJC Open Conference website Directions to venue (Google Map)The entrance to the IBM offices is on Upper Ground (Google Street View) opposite the junction of Cornwall street. You will see a driveway going up to the first floor of the building, walk up the footpath on this driveway to arrive at the entrance to the IBM building. SIGN UP DIRECTLY - If you want to bypass the Meetup.com LJC sign-up process Rough Schedule overview:8.30 am Sign-in hands over to security (will be very slow)9.30 am Brief introduction, discussing how day will work and organising the board10.10 am Conference Keynote12.40 Lunch5.30 pm Conference wrap up5.30 pm+ Atlassian sponsored drinks at the venue with Oracle sponsored buffet dinner Conference overviewLJC Conference #4 is a one day event where you can attend a wide range of talks, workshops and practical sessions, drawn from the experiences of those in industry. Its a great opportunity to learn with up to 30 sessions during the day, including a keynote, lightning talks, open source project overviews, a Java 7 track, discussion groups and a whole lot more. What people said about our previous conferences (see photos): "Fantastic day, learned a great deal and made some valuable connections with people in the industry, more of these please""Amazing forum. Met some of the best minds in the field. Inspired me to learn more and work harder.. ""Brilliant time! Learnt a lot and met a lot of great people. Look forward to the next one :-)""An excellent opportunity to learn more about things I should know about but didn't" Those who want to can get more involved and are encouraged to share there ideas and experiences. Some sessions have already been proposed, why not let us know what you want to see or present? You can also come up with ideas and sessions on the morning of the conference (as with an unconference)!! We encourage you to talk about a wide range of topics, not just specifics of the Java language, Spring, Hibernate, Open Source, OSGi, etc, but also about tools and practices - eg. software craftsmanship, BDD, TDD, Kanban, Agile and other practices that enhance our world. Due to the diversity of the Java ecosystem in terms of languages, we have many people from the Groovy, Scala and Clojure user groups will be sharing their experiences. The open conference has a minimal payment to cover costs of food and venue. No payment is made to speakers from this entry fee. If you are unable to pay via Paypal, please contact the organiser directly and we will try to seek alternative solution.
PLEASE NOTE THIS IS A JBUG EVENT NOT AN LJC EVENT. WE ARE USING THE LJC TO GENERATE PUBLICITY OF THE EVENT. C2B2 ARE HANDLING THE ATTENDANCE TO THE EVENT. TO GUARANTEE A PLACE YOU MUST REGISTER YOUR DETAILS HERE:www.c2b2.co.uk/jbug November JBUG Event - RHQ November JBUG is devoted to RHQ - we have lined up Heiko Rupp - Principal Software Engineer at Red Hat and RHQ specialist to present the main talk. Heiko will give an overview of RHQ and JBoss ON, talk about the new stuff in RHQ 4.2 and JBoss ON 3.0 and also showcase the start of REST api. As usual, we are also opening up the floor to anyone using JBoss who has a tale to share. We are looking for a number of lightning talks 5 - 10 minutes in length where you can share your experiences, problems or wonderful solutions with the rest of the community. This is a huge opportunity to develop new or hone existing speaking skills. What is RHQ? RHQ (formerly Jopr), is an enterprise management solution for JBoss middleware projects and other application technologies. This pluggable project provides administration, monitoring, alerting, operational control and configuration in an enterprise setting with fine-grained security and an advanced extension model. Jopr is part of the multi-vendor RHQ management project. It provides support for monitoring base operating system information on six operating systems as well as mangement of Apache httpd, JBoss Application Server, Tomcat and other related projects. Find out more Who should attend: Anyone interested in JBoss! Agenda: 17:00 - 17:30 - Coffee, Welcome and Networking17:30 - 17:50 - Lightning talks17:50 - 18:10 - Break, networking18:10 - 19:10 - Heiko Rupp: 'Overview over RHQ 4.2 and JBoss ON 3.0 with their new features'19:10 - 20:00 - Beer, Pizza and Networking Bio: Heiko Rupp is a Principal Software Engineer at Red Hat working on RHQ and JBoss ON. He has written the first German book on JBoss AS and one of the first on EJB 3. In his spare time, Heiko is programming his Android device and doing indoor climbing. Heiko lives with his family in Stuttgart, Germany. In this talk Heiko will give an overview over RHQ 4.2, the systems management and monitoring suite and its downstream product JBoss Operations network.The session focuses on the new features like Drift detection and the upcoming REST interface into RHQ. Notes: Tube: The nearest Underground station is Barbican station on the Circle, Metropolitan and Hammersmith & City lines. To reach Skills Matter, exit Barbican station, turn left onto Aldersgate Street, go straight over the large junction onto Goswell Road. Walk up on Goswell Road until you reach number 116-120 on your right. The cross street is Bastwick Street. Other Underground stations nearby are Faringdon, Angel and Old Street. Bike: During an event, you can store your bicycle at the reception area, but please let one of our staff know on arrival. Please note that your bike will be left at your own risk. If you are arriving or departing using a Barclays Cycle Hire bike, there is a docking station on the opposite side of the street, outside the British Lung Foundation building. PLEASE NOTE THIS IS A JBUG EVENT NOT AN LJC EVENT. WE ARE USING THE LJC TO GENERATE PUBLICITY OF THE EVENT. C2B2 ARE HANDLING THE ATTENDANCE TO THE EVENT. TO GUARANTEE A PLACE YOU MUST REGISTER YOUR DETAILS HERE:www.c2b2.co.uk/jbug
Please note this is an online monthly prize draw and no actual meeting will take place. This months selection from Packt Publishing consists entirely of Cookbooks. I come from a genaration of programmers who learned to code by copying listings from books. Back in the early days programs had to be loaded into memory from cassette tapes that were scarce and unreliable. The UKs games industrty was still in its infancy and the main way to get games into your computer was to type them in from a magazine like Your Sinclair or Sinclair User. I still believe there is no better way to learn how to code for a new platform than to look at well constructed examples, type them in and then adapt them for your own use. It is an approach that is proven itself over the years, and like many others I learnt PERL from a cookbook. Today the example cookbooks such as Java2s and KodeJava are still my first port of call whenever I need to try something new. This is why Im so pleasing to see Packt Publishing providing such a diverse range of cookbooks covering new new technologies. Please see the list of books available to win here -LJC Book Club Each month we run a promotion with Packt in which LJC members will be selected at random to receive free books. This month we are offering 2 LJC members the chance to win; First Prize Winner will receive 1 print copy of his/her choiceRunner Up Winner - 1 ecopy of his/her choice If youd like the chance to win one of the available books then RSVP to this month's Prize Draw Meetup and complete the questions. Packt Publishingare a unique publishing company specialising in highly focused books on specific technologies and solutions - please visit their site to find out more about them:www.packtpub.com Congratulations to the winners of ourOctober draw - Sergio Ferraz and Zbigniew Czapran! Good luck, Barry Cranford
JDK 8 Warnings Cleanup Day Please note this is an LJC event. SkillsMatter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: http://skillsmatter.com/event/home/jdk-8-warnings-cleanup-day Impromptu event to come and fix some bugs in Java 8! The OpenJDK team is asking for help in reducing the amount of simple bugs in the source code of Java 8 and have nominated the 1st of Dec as the first date to do this. One of the LJC's resident OpenJDK gurus (Mike Barker) will lead a hands on session where you will learn to build the OpenJDK (i.e. Java 8) and help hunt down and provide patches for some low hanging bugs. You don't need a huge amount of experience to get involved, the sorts of bugs the OpenJDK team is trying to eliminate are the sorts of warnings that appear in Eclipse when you switch on the compiler warnings. Please Note: Nearest tube: BarbicanNearest Coffee Shop: Sun Coffee Shop, 55-63 Goswell Road, London, EC1V 7EN for if you arrive earlyFor after event drinks: The Slaughtered Lamb - 34-35 Great Sutton St, Clerkenwell, London, EC1V 0DX Please note this is an LJC event. SkillsMatter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link:http://skillsmatter.com/event/home/jdk-8-warnings-cleanup-day
Java Puzzlers There are more things in heaven and earth, Horatio, Than are dreamt of in your philosophy William Shakespeare's Hamlet http://www.online-literature.com/shakespeare/hamlet/6/ The year is coming to and end and there's a last day of term feel to the last code share of 2011. We're going to solve some puzzles. It's going to make a nice change. Joshua Bloch and Neal Gafter have gathered together a good collection in their book Java Pluzzlershttp://www.javapuzzlers.com/ These behaviors are known as traps, pitfalls, and corner cases. Every platform has them, but Java has far fewer than other platforms of comparable power. The goal of the book is to entertain you with puzzles while teaching you to avoid the underlying traps and pitfalls. By working through the puzzles, you will become less likely to fall prey to these dangers in your code and more likely to spot them in code that you are reviewing or revising. Joshua Bloch's and Neal Gafter's A Java Puzzlers Sampler http://www.javapuzzlers.com/java-puzzlers-sampler.pdf Does every language have them? It would be interesting to see some from languages other than java. The puzzles seem like the black holes of software, the places where the normal laws break down. This isn't true, the laws are behaving exactly as they should but interacting in unexpected ways. That's why studying these puzzlers is such a useful exercise: it forces to look at what is really happening, to see the rules for what they really are. They also remind us of Spolsky's Law of Leaky Abstractions. All non-trivial abstractions, to some degree, are leaky. Abstractions fail. Sometimes a little, sometimes a lot. There's leakage. Things go wrong. It happens all over the place when you have abstractions. Joel Spolsky's Law of Leaky Abstractions http://www.joelonsoftware.com/articles/LeakyAbstractions.html Computer programming is all about building abstractions, code is just a lie we tell ourselves because we cannot cope with complex reality of engines we tend. There is nothing wrong with that as long as we don't start believing them. Alot of computer programming consists of building abstractions. What is a string library? It's a way to pretend that computers can manipulate strings just as easily as they can manipulate numbers. What is a file system? It's a way to pretend that a hard drive isn't really a bunch of spinning magnetic platters that can store bits at certain locations, but rather a hierarchical system of folders-within-folders containing individual files that in turn consist of one or more strings of bytes. Looking at these puzzles reminds us that there is more going on than our simplified philosophical abstractions allow for. In these puzzles the consequences are obvious, they results jump out and confound us. In our day to day code those consequences are hard to see. They may result in code that performs poorly. They may confound only a fraction of ours users under unusual circumstances. Regardless, their are always consequences and it does us good to be reminded of them. Also, it's fun to do puzzles. Challenge: Language Quirks Thanks to Peter Lawrey of Vanilla Java for the following challenge. Give all the types and values for which `x` make this an infinite loop. There are 16 answers! while(x == -x); Here is another one, this time with3 answers. while(x != x + 0); Please bring along your answers, or any other example of a language behaving strangely. What's Going To Happen? On Monday 5th December, a couple of days before the share, we'll send out an email to everybody who has signed up. If you have any code to contribute please send it in a reply to that email. On Wednesday 7th December, the Code Share itself, we will all have a couple of short presentations. This will be followed by breaking out into groups to try and predict the behaviour of the code. Will we be able tosuccessfullypredict the outcome? The puzzles will be printed, so you won't have to bring a laptop. Afterwards we will come back together as a group to discuss what we have learned. After the event we will be heading to the Half Moon,213-223 Mile End Road, Mile End, Greater London, E1 4AA -http://www.jdwetherspoon.co.uk/home/pubs/th...- for drinks/networking. ThoughtWorks are delighted to be sponsors of the December Code Share! This is a joint event with the Graduate Developer Group (link to follow)-providing an opportunity for both experienced developers and newcomers to the profession to share points of view. Please Note - At previous events LJC members have found this venue/particular room hard to find. This event is being held in theFrancis Bancroft Building - Room Number -FB 1.13a. Please see this map for further information (the building is numbered 26 on this map)http://www.qmul.ac.uk/docs/about/26065.pdf The actual signs at the building will say 'Bancroft' building only rather than Francis Bancroft. Directions - From Mile End Station you will need to turn left out of the station and then continue for 5 mins approx. up the Mile End Road and then cross over the road to the QM campus and go into the East Gate. This is the first entrance to QM you come to when coming from the direction of Mile End Tube. Continue straight on up Westfield Way for a couple of minutes and then bear left at the Curve cafe. The Bancroft Building is on your right (number 26 on the map).
Please note this is an online monthly prize draw and no actual meeting will take place. Last monthsLJC Open Conferenceprovided us all with an opportunity to discover some new and interesting ideas. This months selection provides some examples of books that may help you to follow up on those ideas. Please see the list of books available to win here -LJC Book Club Each month we run a promotion with Packt in which LJC members will be selected at random to receive free books. This month we are offering 2 LJC members the chance to win; First Prize Winner will receive 1 print copy of his/her choiceRunner Up Winner - 1 ecopy of his/her choice If youd like the chance to win one of the available books then RSVP to this month's Prize Draw Meetup and complete the questions. Packt Publishingare a unique publishing company specialising in highly focused books on specific technologies and solutions - please visit their site to find out more about them:www.packtpub.com Congratulations to the winners of ourNovember draw - Huzeyfe Borazan and Krishan! Good luck, Barry Cranford
The Concurrency Revolution At the end of 2004, in his article "The Free Lunch is Over", Herb Strutter wrote: "Concurrency is the next major revolution in how we write software... concurrency is of the same order as OO both in the (expected) scale of the revolution and in the complexity and learning curve of the technology." The world of hardware has progressed rapidly, and we enter 2012 withdual corephones in our pockets. Is our software keeping up with the pace? Before our software can be concurrent we programmers must learn to think concurrently. Strutter continues: "Probably the greatest cost of concurrency is that concurrency really is hard... Everybody who learns concurrency and thinks they understand it, ends up finding mysterious races they thought werent possible, and discovers that they didnt actually understand it yet after all" What is the best way to tackle this difficult problem? What affect does the need for concurrecny have on our code? Should we turn to functional programming and languages such as Clojure and Scala. In his MSDN Blog Brandon Werner observes: In the living world of mutable objects and variables, breaking out two transactions to work concurrently that operate on the same living data is a bad idea. Add structural programming's solution to this problem, optimistic and pessimistic locking, and you have dead-locks in short order. Functional programming has been a natural place to explore parallel processing and new ways of doing atomic transactions because of the reasons above. An alternative approach is Mechanical Sympathy, gaining an understanding of what is happening within the machine allows us to understand the pitfalls and identify the opportunities. In his article about the LMAX Disruptor architecture Martin fowler notes that this is essential for successful performance testing: Mechanical sympathy is important to developing the right tests. Testing a low level concurrency component is meaningless unless you take into account the cachingbehaviourof the CPU. Let's get together and look at the approaches we are taking for concurrency. What does it look like in the code we are writing? Do we have to sacrifice readability? Is it necessary to learn a new language? Is an understanding of the Java Memory Model essential? Coding Challange: Test Driving Concurrency Testing for concurrency problems is difficult because the fault may only occur under specific circumstances. The challange for this month is to demonstrate some test driven development for concurrency problems. Can you write a test case that succinctly demonstrates the following concurrency problems? Race Conditions Deadlock Starvation Nondeterminism You may find the sample third chapter from "High-Performance Java Platform Computing" useful: Race Conditions and Mutual Exclusion. Here is my attempt. Clearly we can be do better. Is jUnit the right tool? Do other languages make it easier? import org.junit.Test; public class TestDrivingConcurrency { @Test() public void singleThreading() { new BuildTestString(0).start(); while(results[0] == null) {} org.junit.Assert.assertEquals("0123456789", results[0]); } @Test() public void multiThreading() { new BuildTestString(1).start(); new BuildTestString(2).start(); new BuildTestString(3).start(); new BuildTestString(4).start(); while( results[1] == null || results[2] == null || results[3] == null || results[4] == null) {} org.junit.Assert.assertEquals("0123456789012345678901234567890123456789", results[1]+results[2]+results[3]+results[4]); } static int i; static String result; static String[] results = new String[5]; class BuildTestString extends Thread { int resultIndex; public BuildTestString(int resultIndex) { this.resultIndex = resultIndex; } public void run() { for(i = 0, result = "";i<=9;i++) { try { sleep(100); } catch (InterruptedException e) { org.junit.Assert.fail(e.getMessage()); } result+=i; } results[resultIndex] = result; } } } It gives the following failure: org.junit.ComparisonFailure: expected:<01234567890123456789[01234567890123456789]> but was:<01234567890123456789[10012345678910111201234567891011]> at org.junit.Assert.assertEquals(Assert.java:123) at org.junit.Assert.assertEquals(Assert.java:145) at TestDrivingConcurrency.multiThreading(TestDrivingConcurrency.java:27) What's Going To Happen? On Monday 9th January, a couple of days before the share, we'll send out an email to everybody who has signed up. If you have any code to contribute please send it in a reply to that email. After the event we will be heading to the Half Moon,213-223 Mile End Road, Mile End, Greater London, E1 4AA -http://www.jdwetherspoon.co.uk/home/pubs/the-half-moon - for drinks/networking. This is a joint event with the Graduate Developer Group - http://www.meetup.com/grad-dc/events/44932902/ - providing an opportunity for both experienced developers and newcomers to the profession to share points of view. Please Note - At previous events LJC members have found this venue/particular room hard to find. This event is being held in theFrancis Bancroft Building - Room Number -FB 1.13. Please see this map for further information (the building is numbered 26 on this map)http://www.qmul.ac.uk/docs/about/26065.pdf The actual signs at the building will say 'Bancroft' building only rather than Francis Bancroft. Directions - From Mile End Station you will need to turn left out of the station and then continue for 5 mins approx. up the Mile End Road and then cross over the road to the QM campus and go into the East Gate. This is the first entrance to QM you come to when coming from the direction of Mile End Tube. Continue straight on up Westfield Way for a couple of minutes and then bear left at the Curve cafe. The Bancroft Building is on your right (number 26 on the map).
This is our monthly social gathering, which incorporates members of The London Java Community and Graduate Developer Communities. This is an informal social evening most of the evening will be spent having ad-hoc informal discussions in small groups. We are back to our usual venue this month - The Slug and Lettuce, 19/20 Hanover Street, London -http://www.slugandlettuce.co.uk/hanover_street/.We have had some fantastic feedback from those who have attended the event at this venue and will be holding this month's event in the same great location. The venuehas a nicely sized function room with its own private bar, there are some great offers on beer, there is free wi-fi and it's easy to move around and chat to lots of people. Most importantly it is a friendly and relaxed environment where developers can get together to chat and network. The event will kick off at 6:30 PM and usually goes on until around 11:30 with members coming and going at all times throughout the evening. We usually attract 50 70 members so it is a lively event in which members, both junior and senior, can connect in a relaxed atmosphere and set the development world to rights. I'll also be onsite so if anyone is looking for free recruitment advice it's a great chance to come along for a chat. Special thanks to Atlassian who are kindly sponsoring refreshments! www.atlassian.com
**Please note this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place.** Following the announcement of Jfokus 2012, we have been generously donated two VIP User Group tickets for Jfokus to raffle to two lucky LJC members. The winner will be picked at random on Monday. To enter simply RSVP to this event and complete the questions. The Jfokus conference is being run by our friends in Sweden on 13-15th February 2012. It's a 3 day, Java-centric conference held in Stockholm (Sweden). They are especially interested in meeting more of the London Java Community. There will be representatives from companies like Thoughtworks, NVIDIA and VMWare delivering speeches on a host of Java-related technologies including EE, SE, cloud, Android, Scala, HTML5 and many, many more. This will be the 6th instalment of Jfokus and more than 1200 people are expected to attend, so it would be a great chance to network with other developers. It's worth highlighting that our very own, Ben Evans, will also be delivering a presentation. Other than Ben, here are some of the speakers at Jfokus-Cliff Click, Azul Systems (sessions: A JVM Does What? AND The Art of (Java) Benchmarking)-Pamela Fox (ex googler and awesome speaker)-Fabiane Bizinella Nardon, RBS-Matt Raible, Raible Designs-James Ward, Heroku-Rickard berg, Neo Technology If you're interested, you can check out all the details out at: http://www.jfokus.com. Here is a link to our developer careers site with a post on how to encourage your employer to give you time off (or even sponsor your ticket) to the conference - http://developercareers.wordpress.com/2011/10/25/developer-conferences-why-employers-should-encourage-developers-to-attend/ **Please note this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place.**
Please note this is an online monthly prize draw and no actual meeting will take place. During 2011 Packt publishing gave 22 books away to LJC winners. Those lucky winners signed up through theLJC Meetup Siteand their names were picked.Each month a first prize winner received a physical copy and the runner up received an e-book. The books choosen give an idea of the topics our members are interested in. It is a list dominated by Google's technologies. We're offering these popular choices again, along with a couple of testing books. Please see the list of books available to win here -LJC Book Club Each month we run a promotion with Packt in which LJC members will be selected at random to receive free books. This month we are offering 2 LJC members the chance to win; First Prize Winner will receive 1 print copy of his/her choiceRunner Up Winner - 1 ecopy of his/her choice If youd like the chance to win one of the available books then RSVP to this month's Prize Draw Meetup and complete the questions. Packt Publishingare a unique publishing company specialising in highly focused books on specific technologies and solutions - please visit their site to find out more about them:www.packtpub.com Congratulations to the winners of our December draw - Ram Katrapati and Syed! Good luck, Barry Cranford
OpenJDK Hack Session A second chance to fix some bugs in the OpenJDK! Late last year the OpenJDK team is asked for help in reducing theamount of simple bugs in the source code of Java 8 and the LJCparticipated with a short hack session. We are running that sessionagain for those who would like to get starting in developing theOpenJDK. One of the LJC's resident OpenJDK gurus (Mike Barker) willlead a hands on session where you will learn to build the OpenJDK(i.e. Java 8) and help hunt down and provide patches for some lowhanging bugs. You don't need a huge amount of experience to get involved, the sortsof bugs the we are is trying to eliminate are the sorts of warningsthat appear in Eclipse when you switch on the compiler warnings. This event will run from 6pm to 9pm.
**Please note this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place.** We have been generously donated one free ticket for QCon London to raffle to LJC members. The winner will be picked at random on Thursday next week, 2nd February. To enter simply RSVP to this event and complete the questions. QCon London is the sixth annual London enterprise software development conference designed for developers, team leads, architects and project management is back! There is no other event in the UK with similar opportunities for learning, networking, and tracking innovation occurring in the Java, .NET, Html5, Mobile , Agile, and Architecture communities. Key takeaway points and the many blog discussions from last year's QCon London can be found in this article - http://www.infoq.com/articles/QCon-London-2011 Please note that the ticket will not include travel or accommodation. Here is a link to our developer careers site with a post on how to encourage your employer to give you time off (or even sponsor your ticket) to the conference - http://developercareers.wordpress.com/2011/10/25/developer-conferences-why-employers-should-encourage-developers-to-attend/ **Please note this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place.**
Xtend and Xtext Please note this is anLJC event. SkillsMatter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: http://skillsmatter.com/podcast/java-jee/xtend-xtest/js-3144 Xtend - A Programming Language for Java Developers (30 min + 10 min Q&A) Are you waiting for closures in Java 8 or hoping for more type inference in Java 9? Thinking about switching to Scala or even holding your horses for Ceylon or Kotlin?How about keeping Java where it seems fit, but replacing just its outdated parts with a concise and modern language? What about an enhancement to Java instead of yet another attempt to hire a killer. Xtend is an an open-source programming language hosted at Eclipse.org and built for Java developers. It reuses Java's keywords, terminology and concepts as much as possible, but abandons some dead freight at the same time. Xtend is a very powerful alternative for implementing Java classes and works great with all the existing libraries. Since the language can be seen as a little complementary add-on to Java, it offers many modern language features that you are currently missing in your daily work. Xtend comes with a variety of goodies reaching from type inference over closures and extension methods up to smart string interpolation that make development great fun, again. And of course there is powerful Eclipse IDE integration available. In this session we will demonstrate why Xtend is so great for everyday programming. You will get an in-depth impression of the seamless integration with the Eclipse Java IDE and you'll get an impression of the expressiveness and conciseness of Xtend. Xtext - Domain-Specific Languages for Java Developers (30 min + 10 min Q&A) Programming is great fun. Doing so in your own programming language even more so! Seriously, inventing yet another general purpose programming language is rarely a good idea. However, as you can imagine, Java isn't the best choice in every case either. A small language well-suited to solve a specialized task concisely can improve the productivity of a whole team by orders of magnitude. In this session you'll learn how easy it is to create a highly expressive, statically typed domain-specific language with the help of the Xtext framework (http://www.xtext.org) . The good news is that you'll end up not only with a fully-functional compiler but also a top-notch IDE as icing. All this and more for free, as in beer. Who should attend: - Java developers who are interested in writing code in a more concise and readable way but don't want to switch to a completely new language.- People who want to learn building nice little DSLs on the Java platform with little compromise and a sophisticated Eclipse integration in no time. Agenda: 18:00: Doors Open18:30: A series of lightning talks from members of the London Java Community19:00: Main presentation - Sven Efftinge and Sebastian Zarnekow will present Xtend and Xtext.20:30: Networking Bios: Sven Efftinge (http://blog.efftinge.de, @svenefftinge) Sven is the project lead of Xtext and Xtend at Eclipse.org.He leads a development team for itemis in northern Germany where these technologies are being developed. Sebastian Zarnekow (http://eszett.blogspot.de, @szarnekow) Sebastian Zarnekow is a software architect and consultant at itemis in Kiel, Germany. He is a committer for various Eclipse projects such as Xtext and Xtend.Sebastian is a speaker at conferences and author of articles for magazines. Please Note: Nearest tube: BarbicanNearest Coffee Shop: Sun Coffee Shop, 55-63 Goswell Road, London, EC1V 7EN for if you arrive earlyFor after event drinks: The Slaughtered Lamb - 34-35 Great Sutton St, Clerkenwell, London, EC1V 0DX Please note this is anLJC event. SkillsMatter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: http://skillsmatter.com/podcast/java-jee/xtend-xtest/js-3144
Since the Spring framework first challenged EJB2 with a simpler way of producing java web applications, dependency injection (DI) (sometimes [incorrectly?] referred to as Inversion of Control) has become a mainstream technology in the Java world. However, when talking about other languages there seems to be far less talk about dependency injection. Is this because other languages have features that java lacks, because of the types of application that Java is typically employed to develop or some other difference in the java ecosystem? Is dependency injection good or bad? Is is accurate to say that dependency injection is less prevalent in other languages? Is it that the frameworks themselves are somehow bad for us rather than the technique itself? Nay Pryce has this to say: We don't use a DI framework. Personally, I find them more of a hindrance than a help in most situations because they don't distinguish between "internals" & "peers" (p 50) and so often guide design to a violation of the "composite simpler than the sum of its parts" principle (p 53). I find that I need to clearly understand, and therefore express in code, the dependencies between the objects in the system. Hiding that information away in auto-wiring frameworks or obfuscating it in XML files that, furthermore, cannot be easily refactored just gets in my way when I later need to understand the code and modify it. In this code share well examine examples of using dependency injection in different languages, different frameworks and without frameworks and discuss whether DI is harmful. Are all frameworks created equal? What makes a good or bad DI framework? Here are some DI frameworks for your consideration - feel free to use the comments to link to others Spring (Java) http://www.springsource.org/ Guice (Java) http://code.google.com/p/google-guice/ Seam (Java) http://seamframework.org/ Boing (clojure) https://github.com/lprefontaine/Boing Pico (Java) http://picocontainer.org/ Parsley (Actionscript) http://www.spicefactory.org/parsley/ Februarys Challenge Use dependency injection (with or without a DI framework) in the language of your choice to build an application that determines whether an input string is a palindrome. In order to motivate the use of DI your application must be separated into (at least) the following parts: palindrome service - determines whether the string is a palindrome persistence service - used to lookup a string to see if its a known palindrome (fake this - no need for access to a real persistent store) presentation controller view Aim for conciseness but not obscurity - we want to focus on the use of DI and so we want to minimize the amount of non-DI code, but on the other hand we still need something that is readable. Please email Dave & Ged your solutions by 3rd February. ThoughtWorks are delighted to be sponsors of the December Code Share! Please Note - At previous events LJC members have found this venue/particular room hard to find. This event is being held in theFrancis Bancroft Building - Room Number -FB 2.40. Please see this map for further information (the building is numbered 26 on this map)http://www.qmul.ac.uk/docs/about/26065.pdf The actual signs at the building will say 'Bancroft' building only rather than Francis Bancroft. Directions - From Mile End Station you will need to turn left out of the station and then continue for 5 mins approx. up the Mile End Road and then cross over the road to the QM campus and go into the East Gate. This is the first entrance to QM you come to when coming from the direction of Mile End Tube. Continue straight on up Westfield Way for a couple of minutes and then bear left at the Curve cafe. The Bancroft Building is on your right (number 26 on the map). This event is being hosted in conjunction with the GDC
**Please note this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place.** We have been generously donated one free ticket for EuroClojure 2012 to raffle to LJC members. The winner will be picked at random on Tuesday 14th February. To enter simply RSVP to this event and complete the questions. EuroClojure 2012 is the first 2-day, full-blown conference in Europe for the Clojure community. There is no other event in the UK or Europe with a similar focus on Clojure and functional programming targeting the JVM, CLR and Javascript. While the Call for Presentations is still open, one of the confirmed keynote so far will be delivered by Stuart Halloway. Please note that the ticket will not include travel or accommodation or the 3-day long training preceding the conference. Here is a link to our developer careers site with a post on how to encourage your employer to give you time off (or even sponsor your ticket) to the conference -http://developercareers.wordpress.com/2011/10/25/developer-conferences-why-employers-should-encourage-developers-to-attend/ **Please note this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place.**
Zero Downtime of JavaEE applications and Home Automation with Java and Arduino Please note this is anLJC event. SkillsMatter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: http://skillsmatter.com/podcast/home/jinspired/js-3393 JavaEE Applications in Production: Tips and Tricks to achieve zero downtime (45 minute talk) - details below Jhome: Using JavaEE and open-source hardware to automatize your house (45 minute talk) - details below JavaEE Applications in Production: Tips and Tricks to achieve zero downtime will be presented by Fabiane Nardon - If you think your work is finished when your application is in production, you're wrong. That is when the most stressful part of the application lifecycle will begin. There is little tolerance for errors and downtime can destroy your business. Achieving zero downtime in a JavaEE application is not easy, but in this presentation you'll learn several tools, tips and tricks to get there. In a demo only presentation, we'll show how to monitor your application using the container resources and open source tools, how to continuously deploy your application with zero downtime, how to find bottlenecks and memory leaks that happen only in the production environment, and more! The presentation will include live coding and live demos. We'll start from a JavaEE application and add tools and techniques to it to achieve zero downtime. The presentation is specially targeted to JavaEE developers. Both junior and experienced developers should benefit from it. Jhome: Using JavaEE and open-source hardware to automatize your house will be presented by Vinicius Senger and Yara Senger. During this presentation we will be showing how you can use Java EE and open-source hardware, like Arduino, to automatize your house. Using jHome, a complete Java EE 6 API for home automation, you can control lamps, wall sockets, electric gates and doors using Web App and Twitter. We will not present a product! It's a complete solution that you can do it yourself with open-source hardware and software and you will have a lot of fun with Java EE 6 with this different usage context! This talk will cover: Introduction to Home Automation and open-source hardwareProject jHomeCool demos:Servlets controlling lampsControllling RGB with jQueryScheduling coffee-machine with EJB'sUsing sounds and FFT(fast fourier transforming) to control your house This is a basic talk and useful for any developer professional level. Agenda: 18:00: Doors Open18:30: A series of lightning talks from members of the London Java Community18.45: Main presentations - Fabiane Nardon will present "JavaEE Applications in Production: Tips and Tricks to achieve zero downtime". Vinicius Senger and Yara Senger will present "Jhome: Using JavaEE and open-source hardware to automatize your house"20:15: Networking at our monthly social event - The London Developer Sessions - to be held at 'The White Lion' a short distance from SkillsMatter - see here to sign up - http://www.meetup.com/Londonjavacommunity/events/44134712/ Bio: Fabiane Nardon is a computer scientist who is passionate about creating software that will positively change the world we live in. She was the architect of the Brazilian Healthcare Information System, considered the largest JavaEE application in the world and winner of the 2005 Duke's Choice Award. She leaded several communities, including the JavaTools Community at java.net, where 800+ open source projects were born. She is a frequent speaker at conferences in Brazil and abroad, author of several technical articles and member of the program committee of several conferences as JavaOne, OSCON, TDC. She was chosen a Java Champion by Sun Microsystems as a recognition of her contribution to the Java ecosystem. Currently, she works as a tools expert at ToolsCloud and as chief architect at RBS, where she is helping to shape new disruptive Internet based services. Vinicius SengerWorking with software development the last 20 years Vinicius Senger founded Globalcode, the largest Brazilian educational center specialized in software development. Senger had presented more than 200 talks about Software Development, Java, Java EE and open-source hardware. His project jHome, home automation API based on Java EE, won the Duke's Choice Award 2011 and nowadays he is working on putting Java and open-source hardware together. Yara Senger is co-founder and director of Globalcode and passioned by community, she is one of the leads of SouJava the main organizer of 11 editions of The Developer's Conference and several other conferences. Yara published more than 20 articles at Brazilian Java Magazine and is also editor at InfoQ Brasil. This year she won the Duke's Choice Award 2011 with jHome project with her partner and husband Vinicius Senger. Please Note: Nearest tube: BarbicanNearest Coffee Shop: Sun Coffee Shop, 55-63 Goswell Road, London, EC1V 7EN for if you arrive earlyFor after event drinks: The White Lion, 37 Central Street, City Road, London, EC1V 8AB - http://www.meetup.com/Londonjavacommunity/events/44134712/ Please note this is anLJC event. SkillsMatter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: http://skillsmatter.com/podcast/home/jinspired/js-3393
**Please note our monthly social event is taking place at 8.30pm this month instead of the usual 6.30pm start. We have organised 2 talks, "Zero Downtime of JavaEE applications and Home Automation with Java and Arduino" by Fabiane Nardon, Vinicius Senger and Yara Senger, at SkillsMatter before the social - see here for details and to reserve a place - http://www.meetup.com/Londonjavacommunity/events/48803012/ This is our monthly social gathering, which incorporates members of The London Java Community and Graduate Developer Communities. This is an informal social evening most of the evening will be spent having ad-hoc informal discussions in small groups. We are changing venue for this month only - The White Lion, 37 Central Street, City Road, London, EC1V 8AB - to incorporate 2 talks, "Zero Downtime of JavaEE applications and Home Automation with Java and Arduino" by Fabiane Nardon, Vinicius Senger and Yara Senger, at SkillsMatter before the social - see here for details and to reserve a place - http://www.meetup.com/Londonjavacommunity/events/48803012/ ;. We have hired out the back area of the bar and there are some great real ales on offer - St. Austells Tribute and London Pride. We will also be providing pizzas. Most importantly it is a friendly and relaxed environment where developers can get together to chat and network. The event will kick off at the later time of 8:30 PM and usually goes on until closing time with members coming and going at all times throughout the evening. We usually attract 50 70 members so it is a lively event in which members, both junior and senior, can connect in a relaxed atmosphere and set the development world to rights. One of the RecWorks team will also be onsite so if anyone is looking for free recruitment advice, it's a great chance to come along for a chat. Special thanks to Atlassian who are kindly sponsoring the refreshments! www.atlassian.com
Please note this is an online monthly prize draw and no actual meeting will take place. Get out of your comfort zone Its too easy to get stuck in a rut. You find something youre good at and stick with it. You keep doing it again and again until you have it perfected. Then you discover that its all become a little stale. The world is moving on and you havent been keeping up. Now that 2012 is well under way perhaps its time to try something new. This months selection of books present some skills that you may have neglected or didnt realise you needed. Please see the list of books available to win here -LJC Book Club Each month we run a promotion with Packt in which LJC members will be selected at random to receive free books. This month we are offering 2 LJC members the chance to win; First Prize Winner will receive 1 print copy of his/her choiceRunner Up Winner - 1 ecopy of his/her choice If youd like the chance to win one of the available books then RSVP to this month's Prize Draw Meetup and complete the questions. Packt Publishingare a unique publishing company specialising in highly focused books on specific technologies and solutions - please visit their site to find out more about them:www.packtpub.com Congratulations to the winners of our January draw - Donald Matheson and Rob Cook! Good luck, Barry Cranford
Concurrent Programming Using The Disruptor Please note this is anLJC event. SkillsMatter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link:http://skillsmatter.com/podcast/home/the-disruptor/js-3729 The Disruptor is an open source concurrent programming framework developed by LMAX, a financial exchange based in London. While it is currently fashionable to talk about using languages or frameworks to hide away concurrent programming, the Disruptor provides a way to do quite the opposite - to enable developers to think about how to parallelise their architecture in a straightforward and easy to code fashion. In this presentation, Trisha Gee from LMAX will show examples of how to use the Disruptor to share data between threads,proving that concurrent programming doesn't always have to be complicated. Agenda: 18:00: Doors Open18:30: A series of lightning talks from members of the London Java Community18:45: Main presentation - Trisha Gee will present "Concurrent Programming Using The Disruptor".20:30: Networking Bios: Trisha is a developer at LMAX, the London Multi Asset eXchange. She's been working in financial markets for the last 5 years or so, but a fear of boredom and healthy amount of job-hopping before then has given her a wide breadth of experience, in a range of industries, over the 10+ years she's been a professional developer. Currently trying to get her head around low-latency, high performance coding whilst also keeping her fingers in the other pies LMAX has to offer, such as continuous delivery and agile. Trisha is heavily involved in the London Java Community and the Graduate Development Community, she believes we shouldn't all have to make the same mistakes again and again. Please Note: Nearest tube: BarbicanNearest Coffee Shop: Sun Coffee Shop, 55-63 Goswell Road, London, EC1V 7EN for if you arrive earlyFor after event drinks: The White Lion, 37 Central Street, City Road, London, EC1V 8AB Please note this is anLJC event. SkillsMatter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: http://skillsmatter.com/podcast/home/the-disruptor/js-3729
Marchs Code Share: First Expressions. Code doesnt just tell a computer to what to do. Code allows us to express ourselves, organising our thoughts and sharing them with others: both humans and machines. Code provides us with three mechanisms to do this: expressions, combination and abstraction. This month we are going to look at the first of these: expressions. Expressions represent the stuff that we are manipulating: procedures and data. Different languages provide different expressions. It is believed that the language we use affects the way in which we think. Wilhelm von Humboldt asserted in 1820 that the diversity of languages is not a diversity of signs and sounds but a diversity of views of the world. Is this true for software? Does the use of s-expressions in Lisp and Clojure cause the programmer to see the world differently to the Java developer? Donald Knuth proposed literate programming, with code being read for other humans to read and understand as well as for a computer to execute. The practitioner of literate programming can be regarded as an essayist, whose main concern is with exposition and excellence of style. He or she strives for a program that is comprehensible because its concepts have been introduced in an order that is best for human understanding, using a mixture of formal and informal methods that reinforce each other. http://www.literateprogramming.com/ In recent years this literate approach has made great advancements in the area of testing. Consider, for example, Behaviour Driven Development and the use of simple sentence templates that allow programmers and domain experts to share the same language. Dan North writes: Developers discovered it could do at least some of their documentation for them, so they started to write test methods that were real sentences. Whats more, they found that when they wrote the method name in the language of the business domain,the generated documents made sense to business users, analysts, and testers. http://dannorth.net/introducing-bdd/ All languages are designed to help the developer express themselves more clearly (well, nearly all: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brainfuck). Their designers, however, have taken many different approaches. Paul Graham argues that extensibility is the key to clarity. The programmer is given the ultimate freedom of building a new language for every new problem. As you're writing a program you may think "I wish Lisp had such-and-such an operator." So you go and write it. Afterward you realize that using the new operator would simplify the design of another part of the program, and so on. Language and program evolve together... In the end your program will look as if the language had been designed for it. And when language and program fit one another well, you end up with code which is clear, small, and efficient. http://www.paulgraham.com/progbot.html On the other hand the creator of Python, Guido van Rossum, believes that the key to readability is to limit the developers choices so that they are forced to adopt a familiar style. Readability is often enhanced by reducing unnecessary variability. When possible, there's a single, obvious way to code a particular construct. This reduces the number of choices facing the programmer who is writing the code, and increases the chance that will appear familiar to a second programmer reading it. Yet another contribution to Python's readability is the choice to use punctuation mostly in a conservative, conventional manner. http://www.python.org/doc/essays/foreword/ The Diabolic Developer doesnt care how code can be made clear because he doesnt want anybody else to be able to read it. Keep information to yourself. Knowledge is power. Think job security. Never provide documentation. Make sure only you can read your code. Don't put comments in your code. Name your variables A,B,C....A1,B1, etc. If someone insists you format your in a standard way, change a small section and revert it back as soon as they walk away from your screen. The Diabolical Developer: How to Become Awesome How do you feel about literate programming? Have you discovered a language that allows you to express yourself with ease and clarity? Have you written code that makes a difficult problem comprehensible? Do you have some ugly code that you just cant clean up? Is there something that others insist on doing in the name of readability that you find incomprehensible? We would like to hear your thoughts. Better still, we would love to see your code. Please come along and share. Marchs Challange: Create a Domain Specific Language. Martin Fowler has written a lot about Domain Specific Languages: The basic idea of a domain specific language (DSL) is a computer language that's targeted to a particular kind of problem, rather than a general purpose language that's aimed at any kind of software problem. http://martinfowler.com/bliki/DomainSpecificLanguage.html The challenge is to create your own domain specific language. Identify a particular problem, any problem at all, and define a language that specifically targets that problem. The important thing is that the language makes it easy to express a solution. Bonus points will be awarded to the author of the smallest DSL implementation. Programmers using fancy functional languages should have an unfair advantage here. ThoughtWorks are delighted to be sponsors of the March Code Share! Please Note - At previous events LJC members have found this venue/particular room hard to find. This event is being held in theFrancis Bancroft Building - Room Number -FB 1.13 Please see this map for further information (the building is numbered 26 on this map)http://www.qmul.ac.uk/docs/about/26065.pdf The actual signs at the building will say 'Bancroft' building only rather than Francis Bancroft. Directions - From Mile End Station you will need to turn left out of the station and then continue for 5 mins approx. up the Mile End Road and then cross over the road to the QM campus and go into the East Gate. This is the first entrance to QM you come to when coming from the direction of Mile End Tube. Continue straight on up Westfield Way for a couple of minutes and then bear left at the Curve cafe. The Bancroft Building is on your right (number 26 on the map).
Special LJC Event Held at QCon 2012 Please note this is anLJC event. QCon are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: https://secure.trifork.com/london-2012/freeevent/register.jsp?eventOID=3902 ; With great help from the organisers of QCon we have been able to secure three speakers that are rarely available in London for a special LJC event held at QCon. We are lucky to have with us: Gil Tene of Azul systems, Adrian Cockroft of Netflix and the creator of Clojure, Rich Hickey. The event will be held at The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre from 18.30 to 20.30 on Thursday 8th March. Gil Tene (Azul systems) will present "The Application Memory Wall (and thoughts on the state if the art in garbage collection)" The original "memory wall" first predicted in the mid 1990's was supposed to have been hit by now, with applications stretching server capabilities to their limits. However, today's typical application instance only utilizes 5-10% of a modern server's capacity, and the percentage is dropping. In this session, Gil will discusses the "Application Memory Wall" and and the likely causes of an observed decade-long stagnation in application instance memory growth and consumption. Gil will analyze the key technical challenges that have led to the emergence of the Application Memory Wall, reviewing the relevant state of the art in garbage collection within managed runtimes in general, and in commercial Java Virtual Machines in particular. Gil will outline the main technical problem areas that need industry and academic attention and focus. Gil will then dive into the details of an actual collector (Azul's C4 garbage collector, http://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=1993491) that addresses the identified set of problems, and show how such solutions can lead to a post-Wall era - an era in which applications will once again be free to productively and naturally consume the abundant compute resources available in modern servers. Adrian Cockroft (Cloud Architect for Netflix Inc.) will present "Netflix' Open Source Scalable Java PaaS" Netflix has used Java for many years, as we moved to run our streaming services out of the cloud, we wrote a highly automated scalable global platform in Java, which we are now open-sourcing, git by git. This talk summarizes the basic features of Astyanax, Priam, Servo, Curator etc., which are available at github.com/Netflix and are described at techblog.netflix.com. Adrian will also describe some interesting Java "faceted type" constructs that provide a kind of multiple-inheritance for business level objects. Who should attend: Developers and architects concerned with building large scale systems in Java. Rich Hickey (Creator of Clojure) will present "Modeling Process". Time, perception, values, identity, visibility, state, persistence, memory, transience, process, place, change, communication. We use these terms everyday. Yet, despite its real-world modeling flavor, OO has little to say about them. What do these terms mean, and why do they matter to our programs? Agenda: 18:00: Doors Open18:30: A series of lightning talks from members of the London Java Community19:00: Main presentations - Gil Tene will present "The Application Memory Wall (and thoughts on the state if the art in garbage collection)", Adrian Cockroft will present "Netflix' Open Source Scalable Java PaaS" and Rich Hickey will present "Modeling Process".20:30: Networking Bios: Gil Tene is CTO and co-founder of Azul Systems. He has been involved with virtual machine technologies for the past 22 years and has been building Java technology-based products since 1995. Gil pioneered Azul's Continuously Concurrent Compacting Collector (C4), Java Virtualization, Elastic Memory, and various managed runtime and systems stack technologies that combine to deliver the industry's most scalable and robust Java platforms. In 2006 he was named one of the Top 50 Agenda Setters in the technology industry by Silicon.com. Prior to co-founding Azul, Gil held key technology positions at Nortel Networks, Shasta Networks and at Check Point Software Technologies, where he delivered several industry-leading traffic management solutions including the industry's first Firewall-1 based security appliance. He architected operating systems for Stratus Computer, clustering solutions at Qualix/Legato, and served as an officer in the Israeli Navy Computer R and D unit. Gil holds a BSEE from The Technion Israel Institute of Technology, and has been awarded 28 patents in computer-related technologies. Adrian Cockcroft is the director of architecture for the Cloud Systems team at Netflix. He is focused on availability, resilience, performance, and measurement of the Netflix cloud platform, and has presented at many conferences, including QCon San Francisco, Beijing and Tokyo. Adrian is also well known as the author of several books while a Distinguished Engineer at Sun Microsystems: Sun Performance and Tuning; Resource Management; and Capacity Planning for Web Services. From 2004-2007 he was a founding member of eBay Research Labs. He graduated with a BSc in Applied Physics from The City University, London. Twitter: @adrianco Rich Hickey, the author of Clojure and designer of Datomic, is a software developer with over 20 years of experience in various domains. Rich has worked on scheduling systems, broadcast automation, audio analysis and fingerprinting, database design, yield management, exit poll systems, and machine listening, in a variety of languages. Please Note: The event will be held in the 'Rutherford' room at The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, SW1P 3EE, London. Please see here for directions - http://qconlondon.com/london-2012/venue/ About QCon London: QCon London is the sixth annual London enterprise software development conference designed for developers, team leads, architects and project management is back! There is no other event in the UK with similar opportunities for learning, networking, and tracking innovation occurring in the Java, .NET, Html5, Mobile , Agile, and Architecture communities. Key takeaway points and the many blog discussions from last year's QCon London can be found in this article - http://www.infoq.com/articles/QCon-London-2011 Please note this is anLJC event. QCon are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: https://secure.trifork.com/london-2012/freeevent/register.jsp?eventOID=3902 ;
Low Latency Performance Measurement and Monitoring Please note this is anLJC event. SkillsMatter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: http://skillsmatter.com/podcast/home/java-low-latency/js-3394 Presented by William Louth, this event will help you to learn about the challenges in performance measurement of low latency high throughput applications in particular how best to derive the greatest amount of relevant measurement data whilst limiting instrumentation and measurement overhead to a minimum or within predefined budgets. Attendees will also learn of the differences between metrics and meters, correlation and causation, as well as activities (cause) and resources (effect). During the talk the various approaches to application performance management will be covered including call sampling, call/event tracing, transactions monitoring, activity/resource metering as well as signaling a much more efficient means of eventing and logging that also includes aspects of complex event processing. The talk will also discuss in detail the challenges in performance measurement and management of Scala applications with regard to mapping of scala constructs to actual bytecode execution and the lack of explicit and direct traceability to such. Also presented will be techniques to measure and model performance and resource consumption across asynchronous calls within actor libraries and task/messaging libraries. - The session will touch on the following topics: instrumentation, measurement & metering, dynamic profiling, behavioral traits, systems & signals, control theory, complex event processing - The material will consist of presentation slides and demos as well as some live coding and troubleshooting. Who should attend: - The presentation is targeted at experienced developers in particular those often requested to help monitoring, manage, control and troubleshoot production applications. Agenda: 18:00: Doors Open18:30: A series of lightning talks from members of the London Java Community19:00: Main presentation - William Louth will present "Low Latency Performance Measurement and Monitoring".20:30: Networking Bios: William Louth is the CTO at JINSPIRED BV and the product architect of its innovative application performance management and resource metering solution - JXInsight/OpenCore. JXInsight/OpenCore is the first low latency intelligent activity based costing/metering (ABC/M) solution that offers enterprise, grid and cloud computing software and services a unified model and runtime solution in the management of performance, cost, capacity and service quality. He has previously worked for Inprise/Borland on JavaEE/CORBA technologies and has provided technical advisory consultancy to many of the leading JVM & IT management vendors in the area of performance management, software runtime visualization, application deployment modeling and federated CMDB design. William spent his early engineering years in the telecommunication industry developing GSM billing engine software as well as least cost routing (LCR) systems for Europe wide traffic at AT&T. Please Note: Nearest tube: BarbicanNearest Coffee Shop: Sun Coffee Shop, 55-63 Goswell Road, London, EC1V 7EN for if you arrive earlyFor after event drinks: The White Lion, 37 Central Street, City Road, London, EC1V 8AB Please note this is anLJC event. SkillsMatter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: http://skillsmatter.com/podcast/home/java-low-latency/js-3394
**Please note this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place.** Couchbase is headed to Europe for our first ever CouchConf London, and we're giving 1 free ticket away to a lucky member of the London Java Community! Join us at Congress Centre on Thursday, March 22nd. CouchConf London is a one-day event for anyone who wants to learn about the latest advancements in distributed/cloud databases and take a deeper dive into Couchbase NoSQL technology. Find out what's new with Couchbase and learn more about harnessing this powerful technology for your web and mobile applications. Early bird tickets are available through Friday, March 9th. Your 75 early bird ticket is 50% off the regular conference price and includes:Education and updates on NoSQL, provided by Couchbase experts.A technically rich agenda, packed with sessions covering best practices for developing with Couchbase and deploying into production.A session on our mobile sync techology Couchbase Syncpoint.An after party for mingling and networking.RSVP "Yes" to be entered to win a free ticket to the conference. We hope to see you at CouchConf! Don't forget that early bird pricing ends this Friday!The competition ends on Wednesday and the winner will be announced on Thursday 15th March. The prize does not include travel/accommodation.The CouchConf Team **Please note this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place.**
"Spring of Code version #2" - Techies teaming up for social change tools16th March 6.30pm at London Hackspace Please note Spring of Code are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you also confirm your place at this link: http://springofcode.org The London Java Community can offer strong competency for this 3 months events. The teams working on specific projects will need of course all range of skills on boardbut also mentors to help achieve their goals. Please add yourself as a mentor if you want to make a difference. This is ideal for LJC members as lots of projects involved are designed for Android. Calling all engineers, programmers, geeks, hackers and techies. You are needed for the Spring of Code v0.2 aka The March of the Trees on 16th March 6.30pm at London Hackspace. So come and geek out with us. Lend us a hand hacking, testing, implementing, storyboarding, configuring, repairing, programming and developing solutions that really empower people. We currently have a great list of projects and we are looking for the key developers and mentors to get these ideas growing. So sign up, team up with other techies, drop us a line, come to the event! What is Spring of Code?Ativists, campaigners and mentors will join together to build the tools needed to support the movements for social change that are sweeping round the world.The project is based on the ethics of open data, free software/open source and creative commons. So join up, tell us what's missing from the online tools already out there and how we can make them work better. Have a look at our launch event: http://springofcode.org/organise/-/wiki/Main/Launch%20event Please note Spring of Code are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you also confirm your place at this link: http://springofcode.org
The Emergence of NoSQL and developing with Couchbase Please note this is anLJC event. SkillsMatter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: http://skillsmatter.com/podcast/home/couchbase-ljc/js-3850 Presented by Raghavan Srinivas, NoSQL has garnered tremendous attention in recent years as the basis of architectures for building large linearly scalable systems. There are a variety of NoSQL solutions for developers to choose from. As a document oriented database, Couchbase Server presents the user with a simple approach to storing and retrieving data across a cluster that handles replication, rebalancing and other inherent challenges associated with a distributed system. Using Couchbase server as an example we will walk through some of the underpinnings of the NoSQL databases such as being able to adapt to a changing schema, working over a changing network topology and so on. Couchbase Server 2.0, Open Source under an Apache 2.0 license, has constantly updating map-reduce based views and an actively managed cache from building upon it's history with Apache CouchDB and memcached. Attend this session for a very quick overview of NoSQL, the ecosystem and what it means to Java developers, architects and implementers. We will demonstrate with examples of how to use the Java APIs with liberal but simple code examples on Couchbase to drive home some of these concepts. We will also cover some real-life case studies from big social gaming applications. Who should attend: Attend this session for an overview of the NoSQL movement and how it has potential to affect a wide range of Java developers, architects and implementers. Bio: Raghavan "Rags" Srinivas is a Developer Advocate at Couchbase getting his hands dirty with emerging technology directions and trends. His general focus area is in distributed systems, with a specialization in cloud computing. He worked on Hadoop and HBase during its early stages. He has spoken on a variety of technical topics at conferences around the world, conducted and organized Hands-on Labs and taught graduate classes in the evening. He is also a repeat JavaOne rock star speaker award winner. Rags brings with him over 20 years of hands-on software development and over 10 years of architecture and technology evangelism experience. He worked for Digital Equipment Corporation, Sun Microsystems, Intuit and Accenture. He has worked on several technology areas, including internals of VMS, Unix and NT to Hadoop and HBase. He has evangelized and influenced the architecture of a number of technology areas including the early releases of JavaFX, Java, Java EE, Java and XML, Java ME, AJAX and Web 2.0, Java Security and so on. Rags holds a Masters degree in Computer Science from the Center of Advanced ComputerStudies at the University of Louisiana at Lafayette. Agenda: 18:00: Doors Open18:30: A series of lightning talks from members of the London Java Community19:00: Main presentation - Raghavan Srinivas will present "The Emergence of NoSQL and developing with Couchbase".20:30: Networking Please Note: Nearest tube: BarbicanNearest Coffee Shop: Sun Coffee Shop, 55-63 Goswell Road, London, EC1V 7EN for if you arrive earlyFor after event drinks: The White Lion, 37 Central Street, City Road, London, EC1V 8AB Please note this is anLJC event. SkillsMatter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: http://skillsmatter.com/podcast/home/couchbase-ljc/js-3850
This is our monthly social gathering, which incorporates members of The London Java Community and Graduate Developer Communities. This is an informal social evening most of the evening will be spent having ad-hoc informal discussions in small groups. We are back to our usual venue this month - The Slug and Lettuce, 19/20 Hanover Street, London -http://www.slugandlettuce.co.uk/hanover_street/.We have had some fantastic feedback from those who have attended the event at this venue and will be holding this month's event in the same great location. The venuehas a nicely sized function room with its own private bar, there are some great offers on beer, there is free wi-fi and it's easy to move around and chat to lots of people. Most importantly it is a friendly and relaxed environment where developers can get together to chat and network. The event will kick off at 6:30 PM and usually goes on until around 11:30 with members coming and going at all times throughout the evening. We usually attract 50 70 members so it is a lively event in which members, both junior and senior, can connect in a relaxed atmosphere and set the development world to rights. I'll also be onsite so if anyone is looking for free recruitment advice it's a great chance to come along for a chat.
Announcing Spring of Code #3! For the 3rd meeting of Spring of Code, once again we're calling all engineers, programmers, geeks, hackers and techies to meet up and build together the tools we need for social change. When: Thursday 29th March 6.30PM Where: London Hackspace What: The Spring of Code meetings are bi-monthly social events where to learn and share skills, meet and connect with fellow techies around interesting projects. Coding happens mostly between events, not during (though some brave coders stay longer to work on a project!). Here is what you can expect from the event - Lightning tech pitches (90 sec)- tech talks / drinks / food- Mentorship / brainstorming on projects This community can offer strong competency for this 3 months events. The teams working on specific projects will need of course all range of skills on board but also mentors to help achieve their goals. Please add yourself as a mentor if you want to make a difference. So RSVP on this meetup page, team up with other techies, drop us a line, come to the event
Please note this is an online monthly prize draw and no actual meeting will take place. Time to Tool Up - If you want to got more done then you need to look at your tools? Can you do something better by introducing the right tool? Are you using the tools you have to your best advantage? Getting tools is one thing, using them right is something else entirely. This month were offering books about Tools that you might find useful. If you want to have a chance of winning one of this months books then please RSVP and complete the questions. At the end of March the luck winner will get a physical copy with an ebook for the runner up. Please see the list of books available to win here -LJC Book Club Each month we run a promotion with Packt in which LJC members will be selected at random to receive free books. This month we are offering 2 LJC members the chance to win; First Prize Winner will receive 1 print copy of his/her choiceRunner Up Winner - 1 ecopy of his/her choice If youd like the chance to win one of the available books then RSVP to this month's Prize Draw Meetup and complete the questions. Packt Publishingare a unique publishing company specialising in highly focused books on specific technologies and solutions - please visit their site to find out more about them:www.packtpub.com Congratulations to the winners of our February draw - Petr and Ozlem Simsek! Good luck!
**Please note this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place. You must RSVP with your email address to enter** Java Concurrency in Practice Course - Free Spot Raffle Ben Evans and I (we're the guys who post often about the JCP and Adopt a JSR programs) are embarking on a major new project that has been driven by the LJC, and so we wanted to give something back to the LJC in the process. As leaders in the LJC, we've heard some common themes discussed at all of the events we've been to. In particular Ben and I came to the conclusion (i.e. We were repeatedly told) that there was a knowledge-gap in the market around the topics of Java performance tuning, Java concurrency and modern software development with Java. So we decided to put something together, so that people could learn these topics in a practical manner. As some of you may have heard through the rumour mill, we've joined up with several other global Java specialists (such as Kirk Pepperdine and Dr Heinz Kabutz) to provide Java training at the sharp end. We've arranged the first training dates in London with our hosting partners Xebia and since you guys inspired us to do this, we'd like ensure that you benefit from it! We'll run three separate promotions (one for each course). To begin with we're going to offer one free spot to a lucky raffle winner for the Java Concurrency in Practice course, as well as a nice hefty discount to the less lucky entrants. The first winner will be selected on Monday 2nd April. * Java Concurrency in Practise - 30th Apr - 3rd May - London Putting this LJC inspired training together would not have been possible without the many conversations and support from all of you, so thanks and we hope to see you soon at an LJC event or mastering some Java foo on one of our courses. Cheers, Martijn and Ben **Please note this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place. You must RSVP with your email address to enter**
**Please note this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place. You must RSVP to enter** Skills Matter is pleased to announce the first Progressive Java Tutorials on May 3-4, the annual Java conference offering a unique blend of product and experience mixed, and tempered with theory and practice. The Progressive Java Tutorials conference will feature talks and hands-on tutorials from leading experts in the Java & JVM world, presenting a contemporary Java use-case or technology. Experts include Jan Machacek, Tobias Ivarsson, Jon Jagger, Anirvan Chakraborty, Kito Mann, Brian Sletten, and Viktor Klang. Tickets are 325+VAT -- but the good folks at Skills Matter have given the London Java Community two tickets to give away. All you have to do to enter is RSVP to this event and two winners will be chosen at random, each receiving a free ticket to the Progressive Java Tutorials! Good luck! **Please note this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place. You must RSVP to enter**
**Please note this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place. You must RSVP with your email address to enter** Java Performance Tuning - Free Spot Raffle Ben Evans and I (we're the guys who post often about the JCP and Adopt a JSR programs) are embarking on a major new project that has been driven by the LJC, and so we wanted to give something back to the LJC in the process. As leaders in the LJC, we've heard some common themes discussed at all of the events we've been to. In particular Ben and I came to the conclusion (i.e. We were repeatedly told) that there was a knowledge-gap in the market around the topics of Java performance tuning, Java concurrency and modern software development with Java. So we decided to put something together, so that people could learn these topics in a practical manner. As some of you may have heard through the rumour mill, we've joined up with several other global Java specialists (such as Kirk Pepperdine and Dr Heinz Kabutz) to provide Java training at the sharp end. We've arranged the first training dates in London with our hosting partners Xebia and since you guys inspired us to do this, we'd like ensure that you benefit from it! We'll run three separate promotions (one for each course). The Java Concurrency in Practice course proved to be very popular with ~150 of you battling out for the free spot! So to continue the fun we're going to offer one free spot to a lucky raffle winner for the Java Performance Tuning course, as well as a nice hefty discount to the less lucky entrants. The winner will be selected on Monday 9th April. To enter please RSVP with your email address. * Java Performance Tuning - 8th May - 11th May - London Putting this LJC inspired training together would not have been possible without the many conversations and support from all of you, so thanks and we hope to see you soon at an LJC event or mastering some Java foo on one of our courses. Cheers,Martijn and Ben **Please note this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place. You must RSVP with your email address to enter**
Announcing Spring of Code #4 For our 4th meeting of Spring of Code, once again we're calling all engineers, programmers, geeks, hackers and techies to meet up and build together the tools we need for social change. When: Tuesday 10th April 6.30PM Where: C4CC (Centre for Creative Collaboration) near Kings Cross Station What: The Spring of Code meetings are bi-monthly social events where to learn and share skills, meet and connect with fellow techies around interesting projects. Coding happens mostly between events, not during (though some brave coders stay longer to work on a project!). Here is what you can expect from the event - Lightning tech pitches (90 sec) - tech talks / drinks / food - Mentorship / brainstorming on projects This community can offer strong competency for this 3 months events. The teams working on specific projects will need of course all range of skills on board but also mentors to help achieve their goals. Please add yourself as a mentor if you want to make a difference. So RSVP now to this meetup page, team up with other techies, drop us a line and come to the event!
Java, Spring and Scala Please note this is anLJC event. SkillsMatter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: http://skillsmatter.com/podcast/home/spring-scala-ljc/js-3887 Presented by Jan Machacek. In his Spring & Scala tutorial, Jan will start by comparing Scala to the other languages on the Java platform. Find out that Scala code gets compiled to regular Java bytecode, making it accessible to your Spring code. You will also learn what functional programming means and how to see & apply the patterns of functional programming in what we would call enterprise code. Jan will gently introduce functions, higher-order functions and demonstrate building rich type systems. Who should attend: All traditional Spring & Java developers who are curious about Scala. You don't need any Scala knowledge, but some Spring experience will be very helpful. Bio: Jan Machacek is the technical director at Cake Solutions. He is a highly experienced Java enterprise architect, consultant and developer with very strong technical skills, author of Pro Spring 2.5, Pro Spring and other books, blogs and articles. He regularly speaks at conferences and developer events in the UK and abroad and he is the editor of the Open Source Journal. Jan regularly works on open source projects; he is the author of Specs2 Spring, Scalad, Spock Spring Integration and Spring Workflow Extension. Jans technical interests and expertise include lightweight Jvm-based applications in Scala, Groovy and Java with the help of the Spring Framework, Grails, Akka and Play 2; with asynchronous, resilient and scalable messaging, deployed on cloud infrastructures. Jan has demonstrated his technical and agile management skills on numerous projects in the public and private sectors; working with the in-house teams as well as delivering projects at Cake Solutions. He has led teams through the perils of agile software delivery, bringing control and value to the business and the joy of programming back to the technical teams. Jan shares his agile leadership experience in publications for the Ncc, at public events and at national conferences. In his spare time, Jan likes to explore new programming languages and experiment with microcontrollers. Jan also competes in time trials and road races as a member of the Manchester Wheelers Cycling Club. Agenda: 18:00: Doors Open18:30: A series of lightning talks from members of the London Java Community19:00: Main presentation - Jan Machacek will present "Java, Spring and Scala".20:30: Networking Please Note: Nearest tube: BarbicanNearest Coffee Shop: Sun Coffee Shop, 55-63 Goswell Road, London, EC1V 7EN for if you arrive earlyFor after event drinks: The White Lion, 37 Central Street, City Road, London, EC1V 8AB Please note this is anLJC event. SkillsMatter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: http://skillsmatter.com/podcast/home/spring-scala-ljc/js-3887
April's Code Share: Faster than standard? The standard libraries that come with modern languages provide most of the data structures and many of the common algorithms that are typically taught in computer science courses. How often do you really think of the characteristics of the collections you are using or do you always default to java.util.ArrayList and java.util.HashMap? Do you ever wonder what is the most appropriate sorting algorithm for the data you are processing? This months challenge is to implement a sorted map (note you dont need to implement the SortedMap interface though, only Map) without using any of the standard java collections or algorithms. You may only use arrays, scalar types and classes you have implemented yourself. Once you have your map implementation you need to use it to implement the following three operations as efficiently as you can without looking at the source code of the java standard library. Download the English Open Word List (EOWL) http://dreamsteep.com/component/docman/doc_download/3-the-english-open-word-list-eowl.html?Itemid=30In the zip file you will find a subdirectory EOWL-v1.1.1/LF Delimited Format you will find a set of text files named ? Words.txt The first part of the challenge is to read the contents of the files A Words.txt to Z Words.txt) in order into your Map implementation with the words being he keys to the map and the initial value being zero. In order to avoid timing file operations you should first read all the words into one of the standard collections provided by your language (eg ArrayList) and then time how long it takes to copy the words into your Map<String,Integer> implementation. The second part of the challenge is to read the entire contents of the text file http://www.gutenberg.org/cache/epub/30255/pg30255.txt (including Gutenberg prefix and suffix) and for each word in the text file retrieve the count from your map and increment it by one. The end result should be your map of English words containing the count of each word in the file (and zero for all words not encountered in the file). Any words in the text file that were not in the initial word list (ie are not in map already) should be ignored. Again to avoid including the time for file operations in your times you should load the text file into a string first and then time the process of iterating through the words in the string and incrementing the count. Finally, you should produce a list of the word counts sorted (alphabetically, ascending) by word. If using Java the result should be contained in a java.util.ArrayList<WordCount> where WordCount is the following class: public class WordCount {public final String word;public final int count; public WordCount(String w, int c) { this.word = w; this.count = c;}} We aim to provide a common test harness in Java which will provide the word list and text file so you should implement the operations described above by implementing the interface Benchmark (below) and providing a no-argument constructor: package org.ljc.april2012; import java.util.ArrayList;import java.util.Map; public interface Benchmark { Map<String,Integer> loadWords(ArrayList<String> words);void addWordCounts(Map<String,Integer> words, String text);ArrayList<WordCount> getCounts(Map<String,Integer> words);} If using a language other than java you are free to implement your own equivalents of WordCount and Benchmark. If we have the time well stage a contest comparing the performance of each implementation. You might like to try Caliper to time your code http://code.google.com/p/caliper/ You can download the code for the above classes from:WordCount: http://www.davesnowdon.com/resources/ljc/codeshareapril2012/WordCount.javaBenchmark: http://www.davesnowdon.com/resources/ljc/codeshareapril2012/Benchmark.javaWhen the test harness is ready well update the event with a link. Please Note - At previous events LJC members have found this venue/particular room hard to find. This event is being held in theFrancis Bancroft Building - Room Number -FB 1.15 Please see this map for further information (the building is numbered 26 on this map)http://www.qmul.ac.uk/docs/about/26065.pdf The actual signs at the building will say 'Bancroft' building only rather than Francis Bancroft. Directions - From Mile End Station you will need to turn left out of the station and then continue for 5 mins approx. up the Mile End Road and then cross over the road to the QM campus and go into the East Gate. This is the first entrance to QM you come to when coming from the direction of Mile End Tube. Continue straight on up Westfield Way for a couple of minutes and then bear left at the Curve cafe. The Bancroft Building is on your right (number 26 on the map).
This is our monthly social gathering, which incorporates members of The London Java Community and Graduate Developer Communities. This is an informal social evening most of the evening will be spent having ad-hoc informal discussions in small groups. We are at our usual venue this month - The Slug and Lettuce, 19/20 Hanover Street, London -http://www.slugandlettuce.co.uk/hanover_street/.We have had some fantastic feedback from those who have attended the event at this venue and will be holding this month's event in the same great location. The venuehas a nicely sized function room with its own private bar, there are some great offers on beer, there is free wi-fi and it's easy to move around and chat to lots of people. Most importantly it is a friendly and relaxed environment where developers can get together to chat and network. The event will kick off at 6:30 PM and usually goes on until around 11:30 with members coming and going at all times throughout the evening. We usually attract 50 70 members so it is a lively event in which members, both junior and senior, can connect in a relaxed atmosphere and set the development world to rights. Barry or another RecWorks team member will be onsite so if anyone is looking for free recruitment advice it's a great chance to come along for a chat. Developer sessions sponsored by Atlassian, creators of JIRA, Confluence & Greenhopper. Tools for developers, by developers.
Scala: An Introduction Please note this is anLJC event. SkillsMatter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: http://skillsmatter.com/event/scala/scala-intro Martin Odersky, the created to the Scala language, will be in town for the ScalaDays conference and has agreed to so an evening on the basics of Scala. All Scala jedi's this is not for you, go to ScalaDays, if you want to learn to basics of one of the most interesting language on the JVM then come along to this event. Scala is a general purpose programming language designed to express common programming patterns in a concise, elegant, and type-safe way. Scala smoothly integrates features of object-oriented and functional languages, enabling developers to be more productive while retaining full interoperability with Java and taking advantage of modern multicore hardware. Here,the London financial community has been fast to adopt Scala and new start-ups like Mind Candy have turned to it to get fast time-to-market. Perhaps its time you found out why and consider what it can do for you! Who should attend: - Java developers who are interested in finding out about Scala, an alternative languages for the JVM. Agenda: 18:00: Doors Open18:30: Main presentation - Martin Oderski will present "Scala: An Introduction".20:30: Networking at The Slaughtered Lamb - address below Bios: Martin Odersky is the creator of the Scala programming language,,a co-founder of Typesafe, and a professor in the programming research group at EPFL, the leading technical university in Switzerland. Throughout his career, Martin's singular objective has been to make the basic job of writing programs faster, easier and more enjoyable. In the process he has personally written more lines of Java and Scala code than almost any other individual in the world. He wrote javac, the compiler used by the majority of todays Java programmers, and scalac, the compiler used by the fast-growing Scala community. He authored "Programming in Scala," the best-selling book on Scala. Previously he has held positions at IBM Research, Yale University, University of Karlsruhe and University of South Australia, after having obtained his doctorate in 1989 from ETH Zrich as a student of Niklaus Wirth, the creator of Pascal. Please Note: Nearest tube: BarbicanNearest Coffee Shop: Sun Coffee Shop, 55-63 Goswell Road, London, EC1V 7EN for if you arrive earlyFor after event drinks: The Slaughtered Lamb - 34-35 Great Sutton St, Clerkenwell, London, EC1V 0DX Please note this is anLJC event. SkillsMatter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: http://skillsmatter.com/event/scala/scala-intro
There are still thousands of compiler warnings in the OpenJDK! Come join us for an evening of hacking on Java the language itself, removing those annoying compiler warnings and helping make Jaba build faster for everyone. Along the way you'll learn about the OpenJDK project, how the community works and the sort of strict diligence you need to apply for even the most seemingly simple fixes...
Announcing Spring of Code #5 This is already the 5th meeting of the Spring of Code!At our last event we had the chance to be joined by 4 different groups of techies, including the London Software Craftsmanship community, The Lifefay User Group and of course the LJC and GDC. Once again we're calling all engineers, programmers, geeks, hackers and techies to meet up and build together the tools we need for social change. When: Tuesday 24th April 6.30PM Where: C4CC (Centre for Creative Collaboration) near Kings Cross Station What: The Spring of Code meetings are bi-monthly social events where to learn and share skills, meet and connect with fellow techies around interesting projects. Coding happens mostly between events, not during (though some brave coders stay longer to work on a project!). Here is what you can expect from the event - Lightning tech pitches (90 sec)- tech talks / drinks / pizza- Mentorship / brainstorming on projects This community can offer strong competency for this 3 months events. The teams working on specific projects will need of course all range of skills on board but also mentors to help achieve their goals. Please add yourself as a mentor if you want to make a difference. So RSVP now to this meetup page, team up with other techies, drop us a line and come to the event!
PLEASE NOTE THIS IS A JBUG EVENT NOT AN LJC EVENT. WE ARE USING THE LJC TO GENERATE PUBLICITY OF THE EVENT. C2B2 ARE HANDLING THE ATTENDANCE TO THE EVENT. TO GUARANTEE A PLACE YOU MUST REGISTER YOUR DETAILS HERE: www.c2b2.co.uk/jbug April JBUG Event: Building Modern Applications the JBoss Way Join London JBoss User Group and listen to Pete Muir, Principal Software Engineer at Red Hat who will walk you through a pre-built Java EE 6 application, and show you how JBoss' RAD tool, JBoss Forge, allows you to easily add capabilities. And that's not all! To find out more, visit JBUG Meetup page: http://www.meetup.com/JBoss-User-Group/events/58207662/ Presentation: Pete will introduce the JBoss preferred approach to developing applications, with its underlying motivations and design goals. He will walk you through a pre-built Java EE 6 application, and show you how JBoss RAD tool, JBoss Forge, allows you to easily add capabilities. Hell deploy both locally, and to Red Hats free cloud, Red Hat OpenShift Express. The application will offer a mobile-friendly HTML5 front end, allowing you to use the app during the session.Pete will discuss the requirements for the application, why the technologies were chosen, and how the application is architected. Agenda: 18:00 - 18:30 - Coffee, Welcome and Networking18:30 - 19:30 Building Modern Applications the JBoss Way by Pete Muir19:30 - 20:15 - Beer, Pizza and Networking20:15 - 21:00 - Lightning Talks Speaker: Pete Muir - Principal Software Engineer, Red HatPete leads the CDI 1.1 specification, and work on Infinispan and was a founder of the Arquillian project. Prior to these roles, Pete led the Seam and Weld projects. He has worked on a number of specifications, including JavaServer Faces (JSF) 2.0, AtInject, and CDI. He is a regular speaker at JUGs and conferences such as Devoxx, JAX, JavaBlend, JSFDays, JUDCon, JavaOne, and JBoss World. PLEASE NOTE THIS IS A JBUG EVENT NOT AN LJC EVENT. WE ARE USING THE LJC TO GENERATE PUBLICITY OF THE EVENT. C2B2 ARE HANDLING THE ATTENDANCE TO THE EVENT. TO GUARANTEE A PLACE YOU MUST REGISTER YOUR DETAILS HERE: www.c2b2.co.uk/jbug
Please note this is an online monthly prize draw and no actual meeting will take place. Androids and Architects - This month we're going to look at two very different areas. First of all we have two beginners guides for Android. They may be beginners guides, but they are covering advanced topics that can make your Android apps look fine. Then we have two books for the service oriented architect. If you want to become and architect then this is a popular architectural style that you need to be familiar with. The final two books are for those with an interest in architecture that want to stay practical. They cover two core element's of JBoss' SOA Suite: the Enterprise Service Bus and Business Rules Engine. If you want to have a chance of winning one of this months books then please RSVP and complete the questions. At the end of March the luck winner will get a physical copy with an ebook for the runner up. Please see the list of books available to win here -LJC Book Club Each month we run a promotion with Packt in which LJC members will be selected at random to receive free books. This month we are offering 2 LJC members the chance to win; First Prize Winner will receive 1 print copy of his/her choiceRunner Up Winner - 1 ecopy of his/her choice If youd like the chance to win one of the available books then RSVP to this month's Prize Draw Meetup and complete the questions. Packt Publishingare a unique publishing company specialising in highly focused books on specific technologies and solutions - please visit their site to find out more about them:www.packtpub.com Congratulations to the winners of our March draw - to be announced at the start of April! Good luck!
User's Guide to the Disruptor Trisha Gee will present "User's Guide to the Disruptor". The Disruptor is an open source concurrent programming framework developed by LMAX, a financial exchange based in London. While it is currently fashionable to talk about using languages or frameworks to hide away concurrent programming, the Disruptor provides a way to do quite the opposite - to enable developers to think about how to parallelise their architecture in a straightforward and easy to code fashion. In this presentation, Trisha Gee from LMAX will use her infamous diagrams to demonstrate how to dissect a problem into pieces in such a way that you can identify which parts are can run in parallel and how to manage dependencies between them. She then shows how you can translate this into an implementation using the Disruptor. This is another chance to see the session given at QCon London and premired earlier this year at Skillsmatter. Who should attend: Suitable for all developers. Agenda: 17:30: Doors Open18:00: A series of lightning talks from members of the London Java Community18:30: Main presentation - Trisha Gee will present "User's Guide to the Disruptor"20:00: Networking Bio: Trisha is a developer at LMAX, the London Multi Asset eXchange. She's been working in financial markets for the last 5 years or so, but a fear of boredom and healthy amount of job-hopping before then has given her a wide breadth of experience, in a range of industries, over the 10+ years she's been a professional developer. Currently trying to get her head around low-latency, high performance coding whilst also keeping her fingers in the other pies LMAX has to offer, such as continuous delivery and agile. Trisha is heavily involved in the London Java Community and the Graduate Development Community, she believes we shouldn't all have to make the same mistakes again and again. Please Note: Tube: Only a short walk from Kings Cross, Euston Russell Square and Goodge Street stations. Directions: Please use the entrance of the Roberts Building, Malet Place, just off Torrington Place to find the 'Malet Place Engineering Building 1.02'. There is a map you can use at the bottom of this webpage http://www.engineering.ucl.ac.uk/contact/ Nearest coffee shop should you arrive early: Espresso Bar at The British Library, The British Library, 96 Euston Road, London NW1 2DB (less than 500m from UCL) - http://www.squaremeal.co.uk/restaurants/london/view/102880/Espresso_Bar_at_the_British_Library For after event drinks: We'll be heading to the Print Room Caf located on the ground floor of the South Wing Building at UCL (couple of mins walk from main talk)
Please note this is anLJC event. SkillsMatter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link:http://skillsmatter.com/event/java-jee/ljc-mays-code-share/js-4135 May's Code Share: The Bytecode Behind The Curtain The Wizard of Oz appeared terrible and frightening, but when the curtain was pulled away he was revealed to be a little old man with a bald head and a wrinkled face. As it fell with a crash they looked that way, and the next moment all of them were filled with wonder. For they saw, standing in just the spot the screen had hidden, a little old man, with a bald head and a wrinkled face, who seemed to be as much surprised as they were. The Tin Woodman, raising his axe, rushed toward the little man and cried out, "Who are you?" "I am Oz, the Great and Terrible," http://www.gutenberg.org/files/55/55-h/55-h.htm#chap16 For the experienced Java programmer we may seem to live in frightening times. Functional programmers tell us that the world has become too complicated for us to understand. Our careers might survive, if only we had lambdas, currying, higher-order functions, comprehensions and monads. Functional programming has been described as an arcane, magicians art. Take, for example, the opening of The Structure and Interpretation of Computer Programs: In effect, we conjure the spirits of the computer with our spells. A computational process is indeed much like a sorcerer's idea of a spirit. It cannot be seen or touched. It is not composed of matter at all. However, it is very real. It can perform intellectual work. It can answer questions. It can affect the world by disbursing money at a bank or by controlling a robot arm in a factory. The programs we use to conjure processes are like a sorcerer's spells. http://mitpress.mit.edu/sicp/full-text/book/book-Z-H-9.html For an example of arcane spells as incomprehensible as anything uttered by Albus Dumbledore you don't have to go far. Consider Monads, for example. Haskell has Monads, as does Scala. So what is a monad? Helpfully the Haskell Wiki explains everything: Monads in Haskell can be thought of as composable computation descriptions. The essence of monad is thus separation of composition timeline from the composed computation's execution timeline, as well as the ability of computation to implicitly carry extra data, as pertaining to the computation itself, in addition to its one (hence the name) output, that it will produce when run (or queried, or called upon). This lends monads to supplementing pure calculations with features like I/O, common environment or state, and to preprocessing of computations (simplification, optimization etc.). http://www.haskell.org/haskellwiki/Monad Understanding Monads isn't just a simple case of learning or training. It is a magical, spiritual experience. This is why everybody who has every managed to understand them has written their own Monad tutorial. [I]t seems like every programmer who gets monads posts a tutorial about them. (And each post begins with: Theres already a lot of monad tutorials on the Internet, but...) The reason is that getting monads its like a spiritual experience that you want to share with others. (Bartosz Milewski) http://www.haskell.org/haskellwiki/Monad_tutorials_timeline At the Code Shares we like to keep things simple and practical. It doesn't matter how intimidating or confusing the words are, in the end it all has to be executed by a JVM. A little JVM starting to show its age with a limited vocabulary of bytecodes. The goal of May's Code Share is to ignore the big long explanations and take a look at how some of the functional features of languages like Scala or Clojure actually work. May's Coding Challenge: Revealing the Magicians Secrets The challengefor this month is to find an impressive one liner in a clever language and decompile it using a tool like JD, or Mocha. What is actually going on? What would the corresponding Java version look like? Are these one liners just as efficient after compilation? Please note this is anLJC event. SkillsMatter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link:http://skillsmatter.com/event/java-jee/ljc-mays-code-share/js-4135
Lightweight Software on Lightweight Hardware - Liberty Profile on the Raspberry Pi Presented by Simon Maple: "Come and see the coolest thing I've ever done at IBM :o) A Raspberry Pi is a credit card sized computer designed for encouraging school children to program. I've taken that uber-lightweight computer and installed Debian Linux, Java and the new Liberty Profile. Come to this session to have a play with the Raspberry Pi to hear what I did and some of the problems/fun I had! Also you'll see what's likely to be the smallest computer WebSphere App Server has *ever* run on in the world, for your own eyes! For more info see www.raspberrypi.org/faq and www.wasdev.net Who should attend: Geeks, people interested in the Raspberry Pi Bio: Simon Maple is a technical evangelist, working for IBM on WebSphere Application Server. His current focus is on developer experience and has recently acquired a Raspberry Pi. Agenda: 18:00: Doors Open18:30 A series of lightning talks from members of the London Java Community19:00: Main presentation - Simon Maple will present "Lightweight Software on Lightweight Hardware - Liberty Profile on the Raspberry".20:30: Networking
Spring of Code #6 Tuesday 8th May 6.30PM at C4CC Already meeting number 6 of our series of bi-monthly social-tech events! To get an idea of what other events look like, see the report from SoC #5 Here is the programme quick updates on "weMix", "OpenPlayer", "DracMail", "Scavenger Mobile", "Astoolkit" Lightning pitches (insert your pitch here! If you have a project please pitch your idea to your fellow coders then Q&A, chats,mini-brainstorms, drinks and pizza (in no particular order) Hope to see you all there. The SoC team PS: Note that this time we'll start at 6.30PM sharp!
"Java Performance Tuning Workshop" with Ben Evans/Martijn Verburg Xebia UK is pleased to announce that it is organizing its very first performance tuning workshop with Ben Evans and Martijn Verburg. 18:30 - Introduction: Brief introduction by Luc Legardeur, President of Xebia. 18:40 - Workshop Presentation: The aim of the workshop is to conduct a performance audit on a Java web application. You will have all the necessary tools to deploy and to load test the application locally on your laptops. Ben and Martijn will be there to guide you through the analysis and onto fixing the issue itself. Target audience: Java Consultants, developers, anyone with Java experience interested in performance testing. Why you should attend: Over 90% of people who have attended our performance tuning course have had past performance issues with an application in production. Many of them readily admit that solving the problem can take up to 3 months. Searching for the problem can cost a company between 10000 and 50000 along with service interruptions and client dissatisfaction. This performance tuning evening with Ben Evans and Martijn Verburg will show you that a scientific approach is possible and that you can identify and solve some of these performance issues quickly. Organisation and pre-requisites: * You will need to bring your laptop with you. * Participants will work in pairs. * Each team needs to have on Workstation with JDK 1.6.0 installed * You will be given all of the necessary tools to deploy and to load test the application locally on your laptops. Workshop plan: * Presentation of the application* Demonstrations of the deployment of JMeter scenarios* Everybody will audit the performance, identify bugs and offer proposed corrections* Audit demonstration by Ben/Martijn 20:00 - 21:00 Beer/Pizzas! PLEASE NOTE: Directions: Please visit this link for venue location information - http://www.regus.com/locations/GB/London/LondonTrafalgarSquare.htm Public Transport:-10 minute taxi or tube ride from Victoria Station.-Two minute walk from Charing Cross Station for Bakerloo, Jubilee and Northern lines and for main line services.-Take the Strand exit out of the station and turn left towards Whitehall.-Northumberland Avenue is the first turning on the left.-10 minute taxi or tube ride from Waterloo Station.
**Please note this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place. You must RSVP with your email address to enter** Xebia Ticket Raffle: Saturday 1-day Advanced Java programming on 26th May 2012 Xebia is pleased to announce that we are organizing our very first Saturday 1-day Advanced Java programming training (read the program) with Ben Evans and Martijn Verburg on the 26th May for which we have a raffle with a FREE slot as a prize for the winner. This 1 day course is designed to work as a:-A skills health-check-A brush-up before job interviews-A prerequisite for more advanced topics such as concurrency and performance. This course is particularly suitable for developers working in Banking/Finance or other demanding industries (including contractors, and people who want to break into those industries). Our instructors and authors all come from a background in financial and related industries, and there are plenty of real-world examples and real pitfalls covered in all of our courses. For example, many of the topics and exercises are derived from real scenarios and job interviews. Amongst other subjects, well discuss the more advanced aspects of objects and collections, approaches to representing executing code (such as threadpools),reflection, classloading and finally monitoring with tools such as VisualVM. To take part in this competition, you will need to enter your full name and email address for Xebia UK Ltd. A winner will be selected on Monday morning (14th). Please note that your contact details will be passed to sponsors of this competition, Xebia. Travel/Accommodation is not included in this prize. **Please note this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place. You must RSVP with your email address to enter**
This is our monthly social gathering, which incorporates members of The London Java Community and Graduate Developer Communities. This is an informal social evening most of the evening will be spent having ad-hoc informal discussions in small groups. We are at our usual venue this month - The Slug and Lettuce, 19/20 Hanover Street, London -http://www.slugandlettuce.co.uk/hanover_street/. We have had some fantastic feedback from those who have attended the event at this venue and will be holding this month's event in the same great location. The venuehas a nicely sized function room with its own private bar, there are some great offers on beer, there is free wi-fi and it's easy to move around and chat to lots of people. Most importantly it is a friendly and relaxed environment where developers can get together to chat and network. The event will kick off at 6:30 PM and usually goes on until around 11:30 with members coming and going at all times throughout the evening. We usually attract 50 70 members so it is a lively event in which members, both junior and senior, can connect in a relaxed atmosphere and set the development world to rights. Barry or another RecWorks team member will be onsite so if anyone is looking for free recruitment advice it's a great chance to come along for a chat. Developer sessions sponsored by Atlassian, creators of JIRA, Confluence & Greenhopper. Tools for developers, by developers.
NoSQL for Java Developers This event brings together a panel of innovators and early adopters, both practitioners and vendors. Between them they have decades of experience using SQL. Yet they are all now depending upon NoSQL to achieve their goals. They will share with us their reasons and the lessons they have learnt; both the benefits and the pitfalls... The panel includes:Alistair Jones of Neo4jAlvin Richars of 10genRobert Rees of WakokuKim Ross of Bossa StudiosThe evening will be curated by Manik Surtani of Red Hat. Are you considering NoSQL? You should be if you don't want to be left behind. These new technologies are seriously disrupting the software development landscape. They offer competitive advantage by allowing faster development and elastic, scalable deployment onto low cost hardware. Are you planning to adopt a NoSQL product? You need to be careful. These cutting edge products are developing fast but they still have a long way to go before they can match the mature support provided by the well established relational databases. Some of the features developers are accustomed to, such as ACID transactions, may never be provided. Are you well informed about NoSQL? You need to be if you want to make the right decisions, seize the opportunities and overcome the challenges. The NoSQL landscape is complex and difficult to understand. There is talk of key-value stores, column families, semi-structured documents, eventual-consistency, nodes and edges. What does it all mean? What are the implications of choosing one thing over another? This event will make you better informed about NoSQL. Across the whole panel we have knowledge and experience across a range of NoSQL technologies. Bios Alistair Jones is Software Engineer at Neo Technology, the commercial backers of Neo4j, the JVM-based graph database. Alistair is a member of the kernel team for Neo4j, so has a deep understanding of what makes a graph database so powerful. Before joining Neo Technology, Alistair spent many years writing business software, leading technical teams and consulting on software architecture. This gives him a good view of where and how to apply NOSQL technologies in real applications. Alvin Richards is the European Senior Technical Director at 10gen, the developers and supporters of MongoDB. He has decades of industry experience, including several years at Oracle. Working on Mongo DB allows him to do what he most enjoys: building great teams who build great products that challenge the status quo. Robert Rees of Wazoku uses CouchDB. At Wazoku, they help bring about change by putting people and ideas together. They need to be flexible rather than prescriptive about how people capture ideas so they prefer using document datastores. Kim Ross of Bossa Studios uses Cassandra to help make games that people love playing. After the painful experience of sharding an RDBMS she took the time to evaluate the NoSQL alternatives before settling on Cassandra. Kim will be able to say from experience what Cassandra is good for and where it falls short. Manik Surtani is the specification lead for JSR347, an API for interacting with in-memory and disk-based distributed data grids. Please Note This event will be held in the Christopher Ingold XLG1 Lecture Theatre which is in the chemistry department. The Christopher Ingold building is off Gordon Street, WC1H 0AJ Please look at this map for specific location - http://maps.google.co.uk/maps?q=+WC1H+0AJ&hl=en&ll=51.525407,-0.132179&spn=0.017542,0.05549&sll=51.53663,-0.071592&sspn=0.140303,0.443916&hnear=London+WC1H+0AJ,+United+Kingdom&t=m&z=15
This is an unmissable chance to learn more about, experiment with, and perhaps even influence, the next version of Java. Java 8 will ship with a powerful new abstraction - Lambda Expressions (aka Closures) and a completely retooled set of Collections libraries. These new features are now stable enough for developers to get a first look at them and start to see how they will transform your Java code. But that's not all! The engineers working on the features are very keen to have a broader set of use cases, and to hear the feedback of developers who have gone a little deeper with the features. So we're holding an event to allow you to do exactly that. Hosted by the LJC's very own Ben Evans and Richard Warburton, this is a weekend event designed to give you enough time to learn about the new language features and then collaborate on some actual coding using these features! The day kicks off with a presentation by Richard and Ben about how lambdas work, including detail of the new methods on the collections libraries, and the default methods feature (which has the potential to reshape the way that Java implements object orientation). After that, we'll divide up into teams to focus on actually working with the new features with a JDK 8 beta build. The list of coding projects is still being finalised (so get in touch if you've a burning desire to work on something specific which isn't on our list) - but will include projects such as converting some popular Open Source libraries (including Cassandra, Checkstyle & Voldemort) to use JDK 8 collections and lambdas. There will be several instructors on hand to help the groups with getting started and with any problems with using lambdas or the beta builds. We'll aim to finish mid-afternoon, so that all the feedback can be collected and captured before heading to a nearby pub for a well-earned pint. This event is kindly sponsored by Xebia! Xebia is an international IT consultancy and project management and training organization with offices in France the Netherlands, India, the US & the UK. Xebia is focused on Enterprise Java technology, Agile development methods and outsourcing services. We consist of over 250 professionals, all committed to be the best in their field of expertise. Passion for in depth technology, in combination with Lean, Agile and Scrum practices are Xebias driving factors and competitive edge. We have recently opened a Java Enterprise and Agile training practice in partnership with JClarity in London (www.xebia-training.com).
Spring of Code #7 If you want to pitch a social change project or get involved in the current ones, join other techies at the Spring of Code social events! To get an idea of what other events look like, see themeeting minutes from SoC#6, our last event. Here is the programme: - quickupdates on"Portfolio Fusion", "weMix", "OpenPlayer","Scavenger Mobile" - Lighting pitches (if you have a project please pitch your idea to your fellow coders) - then Q&A, chats,mini-brainstorms, drinks and pizza (in no particular order) Hope to see you all there. http://springofcode.org __________________________________________ Don't forget to check the events of our partners from London Java Community,Graduate Developer Community andLondon Software Craftmanship Community!Reminder: Organised twice a month, theSpring of Code meetings are social events where to learn and share skills, meet and connect with fellow techies around interesting projects. Each meeting includes: Updates on currents projects, pitches, mini-brainstorming. Coding on specific projects happens during special Tech events organised by project owners.
Please note this is an online monthly prize draw and no actual meeting will take place. Do you know Java 7? This month we are offering just one book in the competition because every Java developer needs to read it, or one like it. The book is "Java 7 - New Features Cookbook." Java 7 arrived in July last year after nearly half a decade of waiting. It brings useful new features that we all need to master if we are to stay relevant. The New Features Cookbook provides solid, practical examples to help you get to grips with these new features. It helps you to gain a proper understanding of what they are for and how they are used. If you want to have a chance of winning one of this months books then please RSVP and complete the questions. At the end of March the luck winner will get a physical copy with an ebook for the runner up. Please see the list of books available to win here -LJC Book Club Each month we run a promotion with Packt in which LJC members will be selected at random to receive free books. This month we are offering 2 LJC members the chance to win; First Prize Winner will receive 1 print copy of the cookbookRunner Up Winner - 1 ecopy If youd like the chance to win the book then RSVP to this month's Prize Draw Meetup and complete the questions. Packt Publishing are a unique publishing company specialising in highly focused books on specific technologies and solutions - please visit their site to find out more about them:www.packtpub.com Congratulations to the winners of our May draw - to be announced at the start of June! Good luck!
**Please note this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place. You must RSVP with your email address to enter** Xebia Ticket Raffle: Saturday 1-day Java Virtual Machine programming 23rd June Xebia is pleased to announce that we are organizing our very first Saturday 1-day Java Virtual Machine programming training (read the program) with Ben Evans and Martijn Verburg on the 23rd June for which we have a raffle with a FREE slot as a prize for the winner. This 1 day course is designed to work as a:A skills health-checkA brush-up before job interviewsA prerequisite for more advanced topics such as concurrency and performance. This course is particularly suitable for developers working in Banking/Finance or other demanding industries (including contractors, and people who want to break into those industries). Our instructors and authors all come from a background in financial and related industries, and there are plenty of real-world examples and real pitfalls covered in all of our courses. For example, many of the topics and exercises are derived from real scenarios and job interviews. This 1 day course, derived from The Well-Grounded Java Developer by Ben & Martijn, takes the developer on an in-depth tour of the Java Virtual Machine. Intended for experienced Java programmers, who want to get deeper with the platform, this course will introduce the major subsystems of the JVM and practical ways to apply this knowledge in real applications. To take part in this competition, you will need to enter your full name and email address for Xebia UK Ltd. A winner will be selected on Wednesday morning (6th June). Please note that your contact details will be passed to sponsors of this competition, Xebia. Travel/Accommodation is not included in this prize. **Please note this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place. You must RSVP with your email address to enter**
**Please note this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place** MongoDB UK 2012 Ticket Raffle We have been generously donated one free ticket forMongoDB UK to raffle to LJC members. The winner will be picked at random after noon on Friday 8th June. To enter simply RSVP to this event and complete the questions. MongoDB UK is the one day user conference dedicated to the open source database MongoDB.The conference will feature over 40 sessions from MongoDB developers at 10gen, MongoDB production users from Nokia, AOL, Boxed Ice, and technology partners such as Canonical, Red Hat and Equal Experts, with presentations for both the novice and expert. Please note that the ticket will not include travel or accommodation to the event. For those who are interested in attending, please use the discount code MUG25 for 25% off ticket prices at MongoUK.com **Please note this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place**
**Please note this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place. To enter you must answer the RSVP questions** Ticket Raffle: The 5th International SOA, Cloud + Service Technology Symposium We have been generously donated one free ticket for The 5th International SOA, Cloud + Service Technology Symposium to raffle to LJC members. The winner will be picked at random on Monday 11th June. The Symposium has become an established and highly-respected educational and networking event on the international IT conference calendar. Now in its 5th year, and following the success of previous Symposiums held in Europe, the United States and Brazil, this years Symposium will, for the first time, be held in the UK, on September 24th-25th 2012 at Imperial College London. The 2012 Symposium is based on the overarching theme "Exploring Modern Service Technologies and Practices" and focuses on contemporary innovations and trends, as well as the emergence of proven and field-tested industry practices and patterns. The Symposium is based on a "substance only" philosophy, providing in-depth technical education on the most important topics in SOA, cloud computing and service technologies of concern to practitioners. Speakers include technical experts from Oracle, the IEEE, The Open Group, the European Space Agency and the US Department of Defense. In total there are around 80 technical educational sessions across 12 conference tracks. The Symposium also features keynotes, demonstrations and panels, as well as a sponsor exhibition, networking opportunities and training and certification workshops. You can find out more by visiting http://servicetechsymposium.comThe Symposium are also offering LJC members a 100 saving on the standard delegate fees by entering the LJC VIP Delegate code when registering for the Symposium: AP3TV56Z. For every 20 delegates that register using te LJC VIP delegate code, LJC will receive a free iPad3. Note that until the end of June the discount is increased to 20% - please still enter the code to help LJC win an iPad or two. This year, profits from the Symposium will provide financial support for students from disadvantaged backgrounds enable them to study IT-related subjects at University. To enter the draw simply RSVP to this event and answer the question:Name a keynote speaker at the Symposium(The answer can be found at http://servicetechsymposium.com) If your organisation might like to consider supporting or sponsoring the Symposium, information can be found on the Symposium website. Alternatively please contact the Symposium organisers atsymposium@qantix.com **Please note this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place. To enter you must answer the RSVP questions**
Please note this is an LJC event. SkillsMatter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: http://skillsmatter.com/podcast/java-jee/gradle-build-automation-evolved/js-4236 Leiningen - the easiest way to get started with Clojure - (20 mins approx.) Presented by John Stevenson. Imagine all the power of Maven without having to manage lare XML project files. Thats Leinigen! Discover how to create, manage and deploy your Clojure projects with the minimum of fuss. Use the declarative language of Clojure to define your projects in a human readable way. See how to separate your dependencies between runtime and development, so you only put into production the libraries and code you want. Leiningen has a wide range of plug-ins and the most useful one being for the runtime environment, the REPL. A bit of live coding will show you how to get the most out of Leiningen and the REPL, including how to connect to a REPL server from an IDE. Come and discover why Leiningen make Clojure coding even more fun and productive. Who should attend: Anyone interested in trying out functional programming on the JVM and wants a quick and simple way to get started. Bio: John Stevenson is a community developer. Coach of lean & agile techniques (especially kanban, ToC, BDD) and Clojure functional programming. Atlassian Ambassador in UK. Gradle - Build Automation Evolved (45/60 mins approx.) Presented by Luke Daley. Gradle is build automation evolved. Gradle can automate the building, testing, publishing, deployment and more of software packages or other types of projects such as generated static websites, generated documentation or indeed anything else. Gradle combines the power and flexibility of Ant with the dependency management and conventions of Maven into a more effective way to build. Powered by a Groovy DSL and packed with innovation, Gradle provides a declarative way to describe all kinds of builds through sensible defaults. Gradle is quickly becoming the build system of choice for many open source projects, leading edge enterprises and legacy automation challenges. Join project committer Luke Daley for an introduction and exploration of Gradle's most innovative and powerful features. Who should attend: Software professionals with an interest in build and release automation and users of tools such as Apache Ant and Apache Maven who are interested in learning about alternative solutions. Bio: Luke Daley is an energetic software craftsman, driven to make developer's lives better by building elegant and empowering tools and libraries. A long time member of the Groovy community, he has contributed to many different open source projects such as Grails, Spock, Geb and Gradle. Luke is passionate about helping teams make sure they are getting everything they can from their tools, and fostering collaborative technical communities around innovative and effective technology. Day to day, Luke is part of the Gradleware team and works on the Gradle project. Agenda: 18:00: Doors Open18:30: A series of lightning talks from members of the London Java Community19:00: 'Leiningen - the easiest way to get started with Clojure' presented by John Stevenson (20 mins approx.) followed by the main presentation. Luke Daley will present "Gradle - Build Automation Evolved" (45/60 mins approx.).20:30: Networking Please Note: Nearest tube: BarbicanNearest Coffee Shop: Sun Coffee Shop, 55-63 Goswell Road, London, EC1V 7EN for if you arrive earlyFor after event drinks: The White Lion, 37 Central Street, City Road, London, EC1V 8AB Please note this is an LJC event. SkillsMatter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: http://skillsmatter.com/podcast/java-jee/gradle-build-automation-evolved/js-4236
PLEASE NOTE THIS IS A JBUG EVENT NOT AN LJC EVENT. WE ARE USING THE LJC TO GENERATE PUBLICITY OF THE EVENT. C2B2 ARE HANDLING THE ATTENDANCE TO THE EVENT. TO GUARANTEE A PLACE YOU MUST REGISTER YOUR DETAILS HERE: http://www.c2b2.co.uk/iPoint/161.page The presentation delivered by Mark Addy Senior Middleware Consultant at C2B2 and Infinispan expert - will be a walk through a real life case study for a leading on-line travel and accommodation provider. Mark will demonstrate how an existing replicated EhCache instance running at full capacity was replaced with a scalable, redundant, distributed Infinispan based solution. This presentation will take you through architecture selection, the importance of load testing, performance tuning and best practices applied when deploying to production. Expect a technical deep dive which will interest developers and architects! Please note that to secure your place you have to register atwww.c2b2.co.uk/jbug Presentation: If your applications caching capability is preventing you from scaling up or handling bursts in traffic then you may have considered some of the data grid technologies available. This session walks you through two real world solutions designed and implemented using open source Infinispan for a global on-line travel agency. Both outcomes resulted in reduced latency, dynamic scaling and a massively increased caching capacity. The first part will describe an existing replicated cache running at full capacity and how this was replaced with a distributed solution that allowed the application to scale dramatically with a performance improvement to boot. Secondly we will look at proof of concept for an application with a problematic design and how another distributed caching solution incorporating grid-execution saved the day providing massive scale out and low latencies. Agenda: 18:00 - 18:15 - Coffee, Welcome and Networking18:15 - 19:15 - Infinispan from POC to Production by Mark Addy19:15 - 19:45 - Beer, Pizza and Networking19:45 - 20:30 - Lightning Talks / Problem Solving session Speaker Bio Mark Addy currently works as a Senior Consultant at C2B2 - UK Java consultancy which specialises in building fast, scalable and reliable systems. Mark has extensive experience delivering development, troubleshooting, problem analysis and performance tuning services to clients spanning a wide range of industries. Mark is a Java Enterprise products expert - his key technical areas include Infinispan, JBoss, Tomcat, JBoss ON, RHQ and HornetQ. PLEASE NOTE THIS IS A JBUG EVENT NOT AN LJC EVENT. WE ARE USING THE LJC TO GENERATE PUBLICITY OF THE EVENT. C2B2 ARE HANDLING THE ATTENDANCE TO THE EVENT. TO GUARANTEE A PLACE YOU MUST REGISTER YOUR DETAILS HERE: http://www.c2b2.co.uk/iPoint/161.page
Spring of Code event #8 It's Spring of Code time again! Let's meet to see what our springofcoders have been up to since the last meeting 3 weeks ago! If you want to pitch a social change project or get involved in the current ones, join other techies at the Spring of Code social events! To get an idea of what other events look like, see the meeting minutes from SoC#7, our last event. Here is the programme: - quick updates on tech meetings for "OpenPlayer", "weMiX" and "Scavenger Mobile" - Lighting pitches (if you have a project please pitch your idea to your fellow coders) - then Q&A, chats,mini-brainstorms, drinks and pizza (in no particular order) - Proposals and vote for selection of tech speakers to come talk to SoC Hope to see you all there. _________________________________________________ Don't forget to check the events of our partners from London Java Community, Graduate Developer Community and London Software Craftmanship Community!Reminder: Organised twice a month, the Spring of Code meetings are social events where to learn and share skills, meet and connect with fellow techies around interesting projects. Each meeting includes: Updates on currents projects, pitches, mini-brainstorming. Coding on specific projects happens during special Tech events organised by project owners. http://springofcode.org
***Please note different venue for this month only** This is our monthly social gathering, which incorporates members of The London Java Community and Graduate Developer Communities. This is an informal social evening most of the evening will be spent having ad-hoc informal discussions in small groups. We are trying a different location this month - The Knights Templar, 95 Chancery Lane, Off Carey Street, Holborn, London WC2A 1DT - http://www.jdwetherspoon.co.uk/home/pubs/the-knights-templar-chancery-lane. The Knights Templar is part of the Weatherspoon's chain and we have negotiated the use of their function room with its own private bar for the evening. The pub is well know for its relaxed environment and for its real ales. The event will kick off at 6:30 PM and usually goes on until around 11:30 with members coming and going at all times throughout the evening. We usually attract 50 70 members so it is a lively event in which members, both junior and senior, can connect in a relaxed atmosphere and set the development world to rights. Barry or another RecWorks team member will be onsite so if anyone is looking for free recruitment advice it's a great chance to come along for a chat. Developer sessions sponsored by Atlassian, creators of JIRA, Confluence & Greenhopper. Tools for developers, by developers. ***Please note different venue for this month only**
PLEASE NOTE THIS IS A JOINT EVENT WITH THE LJC AND OSGI USERS FORUM UK. WE ARE USING THE LJC TO GENERATE PUBLICITY OF THE EVENT. TO GUARANTEE A PLACE YOU MUST REGISTER YOUR DETAILS HERE: http://oufukmeet10.eventbrite.com/ OSGi Users Forum UK: Java Modularity - Kirk Knoernschild We have a great talk scheduled for our next meeting. Kirk Knoernschild, the author of Java Application Architecture: Modularity Patterns with Examples Using OSGi, which was published a couple of months ago is in London and has kindly agreed to provide a presentation. As Java Modularity is not just about OSGi we have teamed up with the London Java Community (LJC) for this meeting. Kirk's book has received great reviews and he is an excellent speaker so spaces for the meeting are likely to be in short supply so be sure to register as soon as you can. Date & Time: Wednesday 20th June, 2012. 18.15hrs to 20.00hrs. Location: Cedar Room, MWB Business Exchange, 88 Kingsway, London WC2B 6AA. Map. Its right by Holborn Tube Station. Cost: FREE. Registration (Essential): Register Here. Sponsors: Many thanks to Paremus for sponsoring the meeting room and facilities. Agenda: 18.15hrs - Registration18.30hrs - Welcome, News & Announcements (Mike Francis)18.35hrs Java Modularity (Kirk Knoernschild)20.00hrs - Meeting Close & Retire to the Pub Abstract: Java ModularityAbstract: Over the past several years, module frameworks have been gaining traction on the Java platform. Though modularity isn't a new concept, it will change the way we develop Java applications and you'll only be able to realize the benefits if you understand how to design more modular software. In this talk, we'll lay the foundation you'll need to incorporate modular design thinking into your development initiatives. We'll examine the benefits of modularity, review module frameworks including OSGi, explore several patterns of modular architecture, and discover how we can start designing modular software today. Speaker Bio: Kirk KnoernschildKirk is a software developer with a passion for building great software systems. He takes a keen interest in design, architecture, application development platforms, agile development, and the IT industry in general. His recent book, Java Application Architecture: Modularity Patterns with Examples Using OSGi was published in 2012, and presents 18 patterns that help you design modular software. Kirk can be found on twitter @pragkirk and his blog site is http://techdistrict.kirkk.com. PLEASE NOTE THIS IS A JOINT EVENT WITH THE LJC AND OSGI USERS FORUM UK. WE ARE USING THE LJC TO GENERATE PUBLICITY OF THE EVENT. TO GUARANTEE A PLACE YOU MUST REGISTER YOUR DETAILS HERE: http://oufukmeet10.eventbrite.com/
This is an unmissable chance to learn more about, experiment with and influence, the next version of Java. Java 8 will ship with a powerful new abstraction - Lambda Expressions (aka Closures) and a completely retooled set of Collections libraries. These new features are now stable enough for developers to get a first look at them and start to see how they will transform your Java code. But that's not all! The engineers working on the features are very keen to have a broader set of use cases, and to hear the feedback of developers who have gone a little deeper with the features. So we're holding an event to allow you to do exactly that. Hosted by the LJC's very own Ben Evans and Richard Warburton, this is a weekend event designed to give you enough time to learn about the new language features and then collaborate on some actual coding using these features! The day kicks off with a presentation by Richard and Ben about how lambdas work, including detail of the default methods feature (which has the potential to reshape the way that Java implements object orientation). After that, we'll divide up into teams to focus on actually working with the new features with a JDK 8 beta build. We plan to lambdafy an existing application and also brainstorm core library changes that could be made. There will be several instructors on hand to help the groups with getting started and with any problems with using lambdas or the beta builds. We'll aim to finish mid-afternoon, so that all the feedback can be collected and captured before heading to a nearby pub for a well-earned pint. The event will be hosted at Timgroup's offices - https://plus.google.com/103294574628876195600/about. And thanks go to them for sponsoring the event.
Spring of Code Event #9 Already Spring of Code 9! Our members have been very active since our last event (4 tech meetings organised!) so we're hoping to hear about their progress! If you want to pitch an Open Source project or get involved in the current ones, join other techies at the Spring of Code social events! To get an idea of what our meetings look like, see the report on last event. Programme: - Lightning pitch: Timodia (if you want to pitch your project let us know!) - Project updates: Briar, Open Media Network, GiftCycle, weMix... - Q&A, mini-brainstorming, drinks and pizza (in no particular order) - Vote on next tech presentation and speaker Hope to see you all there! _________________________________________________ Reminder: Organised twice a month, the Spring of Code meetings are social events where to learn and share skills, meet and connect with fellow techies around interesting Open Source projects. Each meeting includes: Updates on currents projects, pitches, mini-brainstorming. Coding on specific projects happens during special Tech events organised by project owners. http://springofcode.org __________________________________________________ If any questions leave a comment here
This is an opportunity to experiment with, and provide feedback on, the new Date and Time libraries coming in Java 8. JSR-310 is the new date time API thats been highly anticipated and under development for a while. We're hosting an event designed to help the Expert Group fine tune the API in the remaining months before Java 8, and both of the Expert Group Leads will be in attendance in order to see what's going on. The event will kick off with a presentation by Richard and James briefly introducing the main concepts within JSR-310. Then we'll break up into pairs or small groups. There will be a set of exercises, broken up into different difficulty levels that give people a good opportunity to explore the API. We'll be heavily focussed on certain areas of the API - though obviously, if you have your own use cases and wish to simply explore, please bring these along too. You will need a laptop with an existing development environment installed on, though we'll be providing you a jar and some javadoc, so you don't need to worry about compiling your own Threeten build. The event will be hosted at Opengamma's offices - https://plus.google.com/112324003526925804161/about?gl=uk&hl=en. And thanks go to them for sponsoring both the event, and the development of JSR-310 itself.
This is our monthly social gathering, which incorporates members of The London Java Community and Graduate Developer Communities. This is an informal social evening most of the evening will be spent having ad-hoc informal discussions in small groups. We are using the same vebue as last month again this month, The Knights Templar, 95 Chancery Lane, Off Carey Street, Holborn, London WC2A 1DT - http://www.jdwetherspoon.co.uk/home/pubs/the-knights-templar-chancery-lane. The Knights Templar is part of the Weatherspoon's chain and we have negotiated the use of their function room with its own private bar for the evening. The pub is well know for its relaxed environment and for its real ales. The event will kick off at 6:30 PM and usually goes on until around 11:30 with members coming and going at all times throughout the evening. We usually attract 50 70 members so it is a lively event in which members, both junior and senior, can connect in a relaxed atmosphere and set the development world to rights. Barry or another RecWorks team member will be onsite so if anyone is looking for free recruitment advice it's a great chance to come along for a chat. Developer sessions sponsored by Atlassian, creators of JIRA, Confluence & Greenhopper. Tools for developers, by developers.
PLEASE NOTE THIS IS A C2B2 EVENT NOT AN LJC EVENT. WE ARE USING THE LJC TO GENERATE PUBLICITY OF THE EVENT. C2B2 ARE HANDLING THE ATTENDANCE TO THE EVENT. TO GUARANTEE A PLACE YOU MUST REGISTER YOUR DETAILS HERE: http://www.c2b2.co.uk/iPoint/158.page SPACES ARE LIMITED! Data Grids Explained: Free Hands-on Technical Workshop You will find out what data grids are and why they are cool, the workshopwill compare three data grids products: Coherence, GemFire and Infinispan For more information please visit - http://www.c2b2.co.uk/iPoint/158.page C2B2 ARE HANDLING THE ATTENDANCE TO THE EVENT. TO GUARANTEE A PLACE YOU MUST REGISTER YOUR DETAILS HERE: http://www.c2b2.co.uk/iPoint/158.page SPACES ARE LIMITED!
Update on presentations: Ben Blundell (@secti0n9):Hacking together a medical scanning rig for keyhole surgery using Open Source tools. Ben is a freelance software engineer, specialising incomputer graphics, computer vision, physical computing and digital art. He has worked at and collaborated with UCL, The British Library, The University of Manchester, The British Museum and MSA Visuals in the last 2 years. For more info visit his site:www.section9.co.uk What is this about? We're giving development guidance time to the right projects!The Spring of Code meetings are match-making events for great open source projects and skilled people. Expect lightning pitches, project updates, mini-brainstorming... and beer! To get an idea of what our meetings look like, see the report on last event. Programme to be announced soon Hope to see you all there!_________________________________________________ Reminder: Organised twice a month, the Spring of Code meetings are social events where to learn and share skills, meet and connect with fellow techies around interesting Open Source projects. Each meeting includes: Updates on currents projects, pitches, mini-brainstorming. Coding on specific projects happens during special Tech events organised by project owners. http://springofcode.org __________________________________________________ If any questions leave a comment here or email the organiser
PLEASE NOTE THIS IS A C2B2 EVENT NOT AN LJC EVENT. WE ARE USING THE LJC TO GENERATE PUBLICITY OF THE EVENT. C2B2 ARE HANDLING THE ATTENDANCE TO THE EVENT. TO GUARANTEE A PLACE YOU MUST REGISTER YOUR DETAILS HERE: http://www.c2b2.co.uk/iPoint/264.page SPACES ARE LIMITED! Unleash the Power of Oracle WebLogic 12c: Architect, Deploy, Monitor& Tune JEE6 You will find out what's new in WebLogic 12c, learn how to leverage WebLogicand App Grid features and how to architect WebLogic Domains. For more information please visit - http://www.c2b2.co.uk/iPoint/264.page C2B2 ARE HANDLING THE ATTENDANCE TO THE EVENT. TO GUARANTEE A PLACE YOU MUST REGISTER YOUR DETAILS HERE: http://www.c2b2.co.uk/iPoint/264.page SPACES ARE LIMITED!
Understanding Java Garbage Collection and What You Can Do About It Garbage Collection is an integral part of application behavior on Java platforms, yet it is often misunderstood. As such, it is important for Java developers to understand the actions you can take in selecting and tuning collector mechanisms, as well as in your application architecture choices. In this presentation, Gil Tene (CTO, Azul Systems) reviews and classifies the various garbage collectors and collection techniques available in JVMs today. Following a quick overview of common garbage collection techniques including generational, parallel, stop-the-world, incremental, concurrent and mostly-concurrent algorithms, he defines terms and metrics common to all collectors. He classifies each major JVM collector's mechanisms and characteristics and discuss the tradeoffs involved in balancing requirements for responsiveness, throughput, space, and available memory across varying scale levels. Gil concludes with some pitfalls, common misconceptions, and "myths" around garbage collection behavior, as well as examples of how some good choices can result in impressive application behaviour. Who should attend: - Developers and Architects interested in a deeper understanding how garbage collection works, and how it interacts and affects their applications. - Managers and System Administrators interested in a further understanding of how automatic memory management affects the operational behavior. - Developers of Managed Runtime environments (including anyone interested in understanding more about the innards of OpenJDK). - Disaffected college students... Bio: Gil Tene is CTO and co-founder of Azul Systems. He has been involved with virtual machine technologies for the past 20 years and has been building Java technology-based products since 1995. Gil pioneered Azul's Continuously Concurrent Compacting Collector (C4), Java Virtualization, Elastic Memory, and various managed runtime and systems stack technologies that combine to deliver the industry's most scalable and robust Java platforms. "In 2006 he was named one of the Top 50 Agenda Setters in the technology industry by Silicon.com. Prior to co-founding Azul, Gil held key technology positions at Nortel Networks, Shasta Networks and at Check Point Software Technologies, where he delivered several industry-leading traffic management solutions including the industry's first Firewall-1 based security appliance. He architected operating systems for Stratus Computer, clustering solutions at Qualix/Legato, and served as an officer in the Israeli Navy Computer R and D unit. Gil holds a BSEE from The Technion Israel Institute of Technology, and has been awarded 28 patents in computer-related technologies. Agenda: 18:30: Doors Open19:00: 'Understanding Java Garbage Collection and What You Can Do About It' presented by Gil Tene (90 mins approx.)20:30: Networking Please Note: This event is being kindly sponsored by Azul Systems: Azuls Zing JVM ensures that organizations can rely on Java-based applications for their business-critical services, grow their revenues and launch new initiatives without worrying about scalability, reliability or infrastructure investments. Azul delivers predictable performance and response time even under high load, and is especially well-suited for environments requiring very low latency. Zing is the least complex and most cost effective platform for Java service delivery www.azulsystems.com Event organised by RecWorks
***Please note this is an online monthly prize draw and no actual meeting will take place*** Packt Publishing are a unique publishing company specializing in highly focused books on specific technologies and solutions - please visit their site to find out more about them: www.packtpub.com Each month we run a promotion with Packt in which LJC members will be selected at random to receive free books. This month we are offering 2 LJC members the chance to win; First Prize Winner will receive 1 print copy of his/her choiceRunner Up Winner - 1 ecopy of his/her choice There are a list of 6 books below. To take part in the promotion all you have to do is RSVP to this event on Meetup and complete the questions. Here are the books on offer this month, the winner will be picked at random and announced at the end of the month: Java EE 6 Cookbook for Securing, Tuning, and Extending Enterprise Applications: Pentaho Data Integration 4 Cookbook Apache Maven 3 Cookbook Android NDK Beginners Guide Java EE 6 Development with NetBeans 7 JBoss AS 7 Configuration, Deployment and Administration To take part in the promotion all you have to do is RSVP to this event on Meetup and complete the questions. Please visit the Packt site at www.packtpub.com Good luck! Organised by RecWorks ***Please note this is an online monthly prize draw and no actual meeting will take place***
This is our monthly social gathering, which incorporates members of The London Java Community and Graduate Developer Communities. This is an informal social evening most of the evening will be spent having ad-hoc informal discussions in small groups. We are using the same venue as last month again this month, The Knights Templar, 95 Chancery Lane, Off Carey Street, Holborn, London WC2A 1DT - http://www.jdwetherspoon.co.uk/home/pubs/the-knights-templar-chancery-lane. The Knights Templar is part of the Wetherspoon's chain and we have negotiated the use of their function room with its own private bar for the evening. The pub is well know for its relaxed environment and for its real ales. The event will kick off at 6:30 PM and usually goes on until around 11:30 with members coming and going at all times throughout the evening. We usually attract 50 70 members so it is a lively event in which members, both junior and senior, can connect in a relaxed atmosphere and set the development world to rights. Barry or another RecWorks team member will be onsite so if anyone is looking for free recruitment advice it's a great chance to come along for a chat.
PLEASE NOTE THIS IS A JBUG EVENT NOT AN LJC EVENT. WE ARE USING THE LJC TO GENERATE PUBLICITY OF THE EVENT. C2B2 ARE HANDLING THE ATTENDANCE TO THE EVENT. TO GUARANTEE A PLACE YOU MUST REGISTER YOUR DETAILS HERE: http://www.c2b2.co.uk/london_jbug_august_event_jboss_eap_6-jboss_for_ JBUG London August Event: JBoss EAP6 JBoss for the Enterprise With the new domain mode features available in JBoss EAP6 is JBoss ready for enterprise wide deployment, and what does this mean for support teams? The talk will be delivered by Matt Brasier, C2B2 Head of Consulting and JBoss specialist. Before attending the event you might want to have a look at the recording of the JBoss EAP 6 webinars by Matt: JBoss EAP 6 - First Look (Part 1) and JBoss EAP 6 - Domain Mode Features (Part 2) Agenda: 18:00 - 18:15 - Coffee, Welcome and Networking18:15 - 19:15 - JBoss EAP6 - JBoss for the Enterprise by Matt Brasier19:15 - 19:45 - Beer, Pizza and Networking19:45 - 20:30 - Lightning Talks / Problem Solving session Speaker Bio: Matt Brasier is the Head of Consulting at C2B2 Consulting. Matt has eleven years experience working with JBoss and eight years experience as a professional services consultant. Matt has presented at a number of technical forums, including The Server Side Java Symposium and JUDCon, and teaches training courses on a variety of jBoss and Java EE related topics Problem Solving Sessions: Following your suggestions, were introducing the new Problem Solving panel sessions which give you an opportunity to discuss various JBoss-related problems you may want to share and discuss with the rest of the JBUG members. If you want to ask others for help and advice, discuss the issues, listen to suggestions and find the solutions let us know! Email your topic to [masked] and we will be more than happy to add your session to the agenda. Lightning Talks: We are also opening up the floor to anyone using JBoss who has a tale to share. We are looking for a number of lightning talks 5 - 10 minutes in length where you can share your experiences, problems or wonderful solutions with the rest of the community. This is a huge opportunity to develop new or hone existing speaking skills! PLEASE NOTE THIS IS A JBUG EVENT NOT AN LJC EVENT. WE ARE USING THE LJC TO GENERATE PUBLICITY OF THE EVENT. C2B2 ARE HANDLING THE ATTENDANCE TO THE EVENT. TO GUARANTEE A PLACE YOU MUST REGISTER YOUR DETAILS HERE: http://www.c2b2.co.uk/london_jbug_august_event_jboss_eap_6-jboss_for_
***Please note this is an online monthly prize draw and no actual meeting will take place*** Packt Publishing are a unique publishing company specializing in highly focused books on specific technologies and solutions - please visit their site to find out more about them: www.packtpub.com Each month we run a promotion with Packt in which LJC members will be selected at random to receive free books. This month we are offering 2 LJC members the chance to win; First Prize Winner will receive 1 print copy of his/her choiceRunner Up Winner - 1 ecopy of his/her choice There are a list of 6 books below. To take part in the promotion all you have to do is RSVP to this event on Meetup and complete the questions. Here are the books on offer this month, the winner will be picked at random and announced at the end of the month: Java EE 6 with GlassFish 3 Application Server Google App Engine Java and GWT Application Development JBoss ESB Beginners Guide Learning Ext JS Learning Vaadin jQuery UI Themes Beginner's Guide To take part in the promotion all you have to do is RSVP to this event on Meetup and complete the questions. Please visit the Packt site at www.packtpub.com Congratulations to last month's winners: Thiago C. S. Ventura and Aruna Gunasekera! Good luck! Organised by RecWorks ***Please note this is an online monthly prize draw and no actual meeting will take place***
This is our monthly social gathering, which incorporates members of The London Java Community and Graduate Developer Communities. This is an informal social evening most of the evening will be spent having ad-hoc informal discussions in small groups. We are back to The Slug and Lettuce this month: 19/20 Hanover Street, London http://www.slugandlettuce.co.uk/hanover_street/. We have had some fantastic feedback from those who have attended the event at this venue before and will be holding this month's event in the same great location. The venuehas a nicely sized function room with its own private bar, there are some great offers on beer, there is free wi-fi and it's easy to move around and chat to lots of people. Most importantly it is a friendly and relaxed environment where developers can get together to chat and network. The event will kick off at 6:30 PM and usually goes on until around 11:30 with members coming and going at all times throughout the evening. We usually attract 50 70 members so it is a lively event in which members, both junior and senior, can connect in a relaxed atmosphere and set the development world to rights. Barry or another RecWorks team member will be onsite so if anyone is looking for free recruitment advice it's a great chance to come along for a chat. Developer sessions sponsored by Atlassian, creators of JIRA, Confluence & Greenhopper. Tools for developers, by developers. Organised by RecWorks:
***Please note this is an online monthly prize draw and no actual meeting will take place*** Packt Publishing are a unique publishing company specializing in highly focused books on specific technologies and solutions - please visit their site to find out more about them: www.packtpub.com Each month we run a promotion with Packt in which LJC members will be selected at random to receive free books. This month we are offering 2 LJC members the chance to win; First Prize Winner will receive 1 print copy of his/her choiceRunner Up Winner - 1 ecopy of his/her choice There are a list of 6 books below. To take part in the promotion all you have to do is RSVP to this event on Meetup and complete the questions. Here are the books on offer this month, the winner will be picked at random and announced at the end of the month: JQuery 1.4 Reference Guide Learning jQuery, Third Edition Ext JS 4 First Look JQuery UI 1.8: The User Interface Library for jQuery Spring Security 3 JasperReports 3.5 for Java Developers To take part in the promotion all you have to do is RSVP to this event on Meetup and complete the questions. Please visit the Packt site at www.packtpub.com Congratulations to last month's winners: Adrian Augustyn and Vlad Sushko! Good luck! Organised by RecWorks ***Please note this is an online monthly prize draw and no actual meeting will take place***
Getting there from here: Java, Scala and Service Orientation at the Guardian Technical leaders within the Guardian will provide a snapshot in thelife of the codebase of one of the UK's most popular news websites. Each day www.guardian.co.uk produces hundreds of articles, pictures, videos and podcasts that are read and enjoyed by millions of people. Currently we are in the unique place of having a hybrid Scala and Java codebase and being in the middle of a migration from a monolith architecture to one that is more service-orientated. Our current position creates some interesting dilemmas in how we choose to implement things, some parts of the system are a tradition Spring/Hibernate/Oracle stack while other parts are pure Scala and there are other flows that alternate between Scala and Java. -Michael Brunton-Spall, technical lead of the Guardian's Content API will be talking about pragmatic application of function programming principles. -Robert Rees, technical lead of the public-facing website will be explaining how the code base is divided between Scala and Java, go through some of the decision making processes of how and where we make changes to the code and also offer practical advice about using the Google Guava library to do functional programming in Java. -Phil Wills will be closing out the talks by giving the architectural roadmap as to how we are transforming our application. <strong style="color : #ff9900">Who should attend: This talk is aimed squarely at senior, experienced practioners: lead developers, architects and team leads. We'll be talking about strategy, pragmatism and the realities of dealing with a big code base with a huge global audience. However it might well appeal broadly topeople who are interested in digital media and distributing content on the internet as well as Guardian fans who are curious as to how we actually get their daily news to them. Bios: Phil Wills:Phil is a software architect at the Guardian who has spent long enougheating his own dog food to realise that it's not always someone else'sincompetence that leads to an imperfect solution. Phil firmly believesthat architects should regularly get their fingers dirty in code andhacks some Scala whenever he gets the chance. Robert Rees:Robert is currently a development manager at the Guardian and has beena startup founder, agile consultant and SMS billing subject matterexpert. Currently he is responsible for breaking the Guardian websiteevery fortnight. He loves the opportunity to work in news and drivinggames. Michael Brunton-Spall:Michael is the Developer Advocate for the Guardian. Hehas worked at the Guardian for five years now, helping to build andscale the website. He has helped setup and run the platform team thatmanaged internal, behind the scenes, performance and scalabilityissues. Michael is now the Tech Lead for the Guardian Open Platformwhich ensures that he doesn't have to inflict his code on people veryoften anymore. He also speaks at conferences, organises conferences,supports users of the API's and plays various board, card, tabletopand computer games. Agenda: 18:30: Doors Open19:00: 'Getting there from here: Java, Scala and Service Orientation at the Guardian' presented by Michael Brunton-Spall, Robert Rees and Phil Wills (three 30 minute talks) Also lightning talks between the main talks - subjects to be confirmed asap20:30: Networking at the IBIS Please note: This event is being held in theMedical Sciences AV Hill Lecture Theatre at UCL. Please see this map:http://www.ucl.ac.uk/locations/ucl-maps/ucl-bloomsbury-campus-map The lecture theatre is in the Medical Sciences Building which is found at the very end of Malet Place, off Torrington Place. Informal after event drinks will be held at:Hotel Ibis - London, Euston, St Pancras' - 3 Cardington Street, London, NW1 2LW - for networking and further informal discussion. http://www.ibishotel.com/gb/hotel-0921-ibis-london-euston-st-pancras/location.shtml Event organised byRecWorks
Java 8 Lambdas hackday hosted by Brian Goetz, Head of the Lambdas Expert Group The latest of our ongoing series of Adopt-a-JSR hackdays will be lead by a key member of the Oracle Java Team (Brian Goetz) as well as being part of the JAX London conference. Java 8 will ship with a powerful new abstraction - Lambda Expressions (aka Closures) and a completely retooled set of Collections libraries. These new features are now stable enough for developers to get a first look at them and start to see how they will transform your Java code. But that's not all! The engineers working on the features are very keen to have a broader set of use cases, and to hear the feedback of developers who have gone a little deeper with the features. So we're holding an event to allow you to do exactly that. The day kicks off with a presentation by Brian introducing lambdas, including detail of the default methods feature (which has the potential to reshape the way that Java implements object orientation). After that, we'll divide up into teams to focus on actually working with the new features with a JDK 8 beta build. We plan to lambdafy an existing application. There will be several instructors on hand to help the groups with getting started and with any problems with using lambdas or the beta builds. We'll aim to finish mid-afternoon, so that all the feedback can be collected and captured before heading to a nearby pub for awell-earned pint. The event will be hosted at The Park Plaza Victoria as part of JAX London. Location information: http://jaxlondon.com/2012/location/
***IMPORTANT: YOU MUST REGISTER VIA THE FOLLOWING LINK OTHERWISE ENTRY TO THE EVENT CAN NOT BE GUARANTEED - http://www.amiando.com/jaxcommunitynight.html*** The London Developer Sessions in conjunction with JAX London Community Night This is our monthly social gathering, which incorporates members of The London Java Community and Graduate Developer Communities. This is an informal social evening most of the evening will be spent having ad-hoc informal discussions in small groups. For this month only we are holding the Developer Session in conjunction with the JAX London community night. Details: JAX London opens its doors for a Community Night on Tuesday, October 16th. If you missed out on the full conference, we'd still love to see you at the Community Night, we is completely FREE to attend! Join us from 5.45pm for a drinks reception before we commence evening with an evening Keynote presentation from Martijn Verburg and Kirk Pepperdine. After the evening Keynote, the bar will be re-opened and attendees can choose to join experts from across the Java ecosystem as they host tables to informally discuss key topics in the sector. This is your chance to get up close and personal with a host of industry rock stars, network with JAX London speakers and other members of the Java community. This will be informal and a great chance for you to get up close and personal with guys not always in the London scene. So far we have the following table hosts confirmed: Core Java Table :hosted by Martijn Verburg Java EE Table:hosted by Arun Gupta Scala Table : hosted by Heiko Seeberger Big Data Table :hosted by Uwe Friedrichsen Architecture Table :hosted by Ted Neward NoSQL Table :host ed by Ian Robinson Hadoop Table :host to be announced soon Agile Table :host to be announced soon Pre-registration is a must! http://www.amiando.com/jaxcommunitynight.html We usually attract 50 70 members so it is a lively event in which members, both junior and senior, can connect in a relaxed atmosphere and set the development world to rights. Barry or another RecWorks team member will be onsite so if anyone is looking for free recruitment advice it's a great chance to come along for a chat. Organised by: ***IMPORTANT: YOU MUST REGISTER VIA THE FOLLOWING LINK OTHERWISE ENTRY TO THE EVENT CAN NOT BE GUARANTEED - http://www.amiando.com/jaxcommunitynight.html***
<strong style="color : #808080">**Please note this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place** RAFFLE - 24 HOURS ONLY - Droidcon London Ticket! We have been generously donated one free ticket for Droidcon London to raffle to LJC members. The winner will be picked at random on Friday 19th October. To enter simply RSVP to this event and complete the questions. Droidcon London is back, the largest Android conference in Europe! Droidcon returns to London on October 25th & 26th for its fourth consecutive year! 1000+ talented developers and designer! And this year's Droidcon is a celebration of 5 years of Android and a glimpse in to the future of the platform! Don't worry we won't have any futurists that's not what Droidcon is about! 3 great keynote speakers will talk about where they're bringing Android in the next 5 years: Julie Uhrman CEO of OUYA. The first Android based gaming console was launched on Kickstarter earning funding ($8.5 million dollars!) and fans. The Kickstarter darling will ship to gamers in March 2013. Paresh Patel Founder of Vendscreen, whose Android vending machine is changing the way people buy... just about anything! Frederic Albinet Marketing Group Manager at Parrot, having flown the world with their phone controlled AR.Drone quadricopter, Parrot have launched their Asteroid series of Android based in-car entertainment devices But Droidcon is more than keynote speakers: Barcamp, an unconference-style day where delegates are invited to present short talks based on their professional interests. Everyone's participation is encouraged: debates, presentations, experience sharing, are all welcome. Democamp, an event to launch and showcase the latest Android apps, attended by press, investor and the community. Of course, we round it all up with the Droidcon London party! Conference, With 50 speakers from industry experts to large Android players such as Barnes & Nobles, Sony, Intel, Airpush, Qualcomm and many more. Mark Murphy (CommonsWare), Cyril Mottier (Prixing) on the Fly-in app, Matt Gaunt (Google) on developing for Google TV, Corey Latislaw (Chariot Solutions) on Fragments, and Simon Cross (Facebook) on Open Graph, Julian Harty on test automation, Sameer Baroova (Electronic Arts) on being successful with Android games, Lars Hard (Expertmaker) on integrating AI in your app... and many more! Hackathon to celebrate Androids 5th anniversary in due style with the VHack Android hackathon, a European competition bringing Europe's best Android developers to London For more details, check out uk.droidcon.com. To enter simply RSVP to this event and complete the questions. Raffle Organised by RecWorks **Please note this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place**
PLEASE NOTE THIS IS A JBUG EVENT NOT AN LJC EVENT. WE ARE USING THE LJC TO GENERATE PUBLICITY OF THE EVENT. C2B2 ARE HANDLING THE ATTENDANCE TO THE EVENT. TO GUARANTEE A PLACE YOU MUST REGISTER YOUR DETAILS HERE: http://www.c2b2.co.uk/london_jbug_october_2012 JBUG London Event: Arquillian - Integration Testing Made Easy Davide D'Alto - one of the contributors to Arquillian - will present an Arquillian Overview. Through some usage scenarios he will give an overview over the main features of Arquillian and will show how it integrates to more familiar testing frameworks such as JUnit allowing the tests to be launched from the IDE or from building tools like Maven. Agenda: 18:00 - 18:15 - Coffee, Welcome and Networking18:15 - 19:15 - Arquillian - Integration Testing Made Easy' by Davide D'Alto19:15 - 19:45 - Beer, Pizza and Networking19:45 - 20:30 - Lightning Talks / Problem Solving session Speaker's Bio Davide D'Alto is a Software Developer passionate about continuous delivery, test driven development and clean code. He is a contributor of Arquillian, Shrinkwrap and Hibernate Search. For more details about the event:http://www.meetup.com/JBoss-User-Group/events/83325272/ PLEASE NOTE THIS IS A JBUG EVENT NOT AN LJC EVENT. WE ARE USING THE LJC TO GENERATE PUBLICITY OF THE EVENT. C2B2 ARE HANDLING THE ATTENDANCE TO THE EVENT. TO GUARANTEE A PLACE YOU MUST REGISTER YOUR DETAILS HERE: http://www.c2b2.co.uk/london_jbug_october_2012
JavaOne Circleback Event At JavaOne last week the LJC won two awards - a Duke's Choice & JCP Member of the Year (with SouJava). With so many representatives of the LJC present, we were also able to participate in a large number of JCP & community sessions - and it really brought home to us how much impact our user group is having. We'd like to bring a little of that energy back to London so will be throwing an event, at the London 10Gen office, which will be a mixture of talk / presentation & panel discussion.... And celebratory drinks. This will show our members of the global impact that the LJC is having and how you can get involved & participate in a vibrant global community. Please Note: Doors open at 6pm for a 6:30pm start. Directions: 10gen's offices are units F&G, on the second floor of the Zetland building. As you face the mural, 10gen offices are the second building on the right. Take the stairs up to the second floor, or Lift 3 takes you directly into the 10gen office. After event informal drinks to be held at: The Fox, 28 Paul Street,Shoreditch,London EC2A 4LB -http://www.thefoxpublichouse.co.uk/ Event organised byRecWorks Event space kindly being provided by 10gen: 10gen is the company behind MongoDB, an open source, document-oriented database designed with both scalability and developer agility in mind.10genoffers production support, training, and consulting for the open source database
NightHacking Tour - Stephen Chin - London On Monday 29th, join Stephen Chin (JavaFX evangelist from Oracle) as he visits London on his NightHacking tour - http://steveonjava.com/nighthacking/. Stephen will be holding a hacking session all about JavaFX. Whether you're an experienced JavaFX developer or a complete beginner, Stephen's unique experience with JavaFX technology will give you new insights & showcase the potential of JavaFX. Please see here for more information:http://steveonjava.com/nighthacking/.
***Please note this is an online monthly prize draw and no actual meeting will take place*** Getting Closer to the Business <strong style="color : #ff9900 ; font-size : medium">with <strong style="color : #ff9900 ; font-size : medium">BPMN, BPEL and Drools Theres been a lot of discussion this month about the need to understand the business. It was triggered by a ZDNet article: As technology increasingly intertwins with business operations, IT professionals can no longer rely on deep technical knowledge to progress their careers, but will have to understand how to translate IT into dollars http://www.zdnet.com/it-professionals-need-business-skills-cba-cio-7000005357/ As developers it can be difficult for us to find a concrete, practical way to better understand the business. This months selection of books focus on BPMN, BPEL and Drools, languages that allow us to code closer to the business processes. To find out more read this month'sblog post on the LJC Book Club. Oracle BPM Suite 11g: Advanced BPM Topics Business Process Driven SOA using BPMN and BPEL Business Process Execution Language for Web Services 2nd Edition BPEL Cookbook: Best Practices for SOA-based integration and composite applications development Drools JBoss Rules 5.0 Developers Guide <em style="color : #808080"> Drools Developers Cookbook To take part in the promotion all you have to do is RSVP to this event on Meetup and complete the questions. Packt Publishing are a unique publishing company specializing in highly focused books on specific technologies and solutions - please visit their site to find out more about them:www.packtpub.com Each month we run a promotion with Packt in which LJC members will be selected at random to receive free books. This month we are offering 2 LJC members the chance to win; First Prize Winner will receive 1 print copy of his/her choiceRunner Up Winner - 1 ecopy of his/her choice Please visit the Packt site atwww.packtpub.com Good luck! Organised by RecWorks ***Please note this is an online monthly prize draw and no actual meeting will take place***
Women in Technology Presented by Trisha Gee. We all know there are not enough women in technology. And we all know that this is a Bad Thing. But for years weve been seeing attempts to address the balance, and yet nothing seems to make any difference. Its time to explore the hypothesis that the approaches weve been taking are not only not working but even potentially damaging. This session Dissects the problem Determines the requirements to be met Explores the domain Designs solutions Suggests methods of testing the success of the designs Bring along a sense of humor and an open mind. Who should attend: Trisha has let us know that the session is suitable for everyone to attend, and is NOT aimed at just women. It's an interactive session, so you'll have opportunities to contribute, it is not a slide-heavy presentation of Trisha's opinions. The session is also open to graduates/under-graduates. Bio: Trisha is a developer in London and a leader in the London Java Community. She's been working in financial markets for the last 6 years or so, but a fear of boredom and healthy amount of job-hopping before then has given her a wide breadth of experience, in a range of industries, over the 10+ years she's been a professional developer. Trisha is also involved in the Graduate Developer Community, she believes we shouldn't all have to make the same mistakes again and again. Agenda: 18:00: Doors Open18:30: Main event 'Women in Technology'20:00/20:30 approx: Further discussion and networking Please Note: Doors open at 6pm for a 6:30pm start. Directions: 10gen's offices are units F&G, on the second floor of the Zetland building. As you face the mural, 10gen offices are the second building on the right. Take the stairs up to the second floor, or Lift 3 takes you directly into the 10gen office. Event organised byRecWorks Event space kindly being provided by 10gen: 10gen is the company behind MongoDB, an open source, document-oriented database designed with both scalability and developer agility in mind.10genoffers production support, training, and consulting for the open source database
**Please note this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place** RAFFLE -48 HOURS ONLY: 10 free Retrospective Log Analyzer licences We have been generously donated ten free Retrospective Log Analyzer licences toraffle to LJC members -http://www.retrospective.centeractive.com/ The winners will be picked at random on Thursday 8th November and announced on this page. To enter simply RSVP to this event and complete the questions. More information about Retrospective: Retrospective is a Log Analyzer developed by a Swiss software company called centeractive ag. We would like to offer your community 10 free Retrospective Log Analyzer licences (worth 58$ each) in the hope that we will get some valuable feedback from real users. For the previous 6 months we have been improving this software and the feedback we have received so far has always been of great value to us. Some interesting features that are unique to Retrospective are:- search / tail (monitoring) of logs on Linux hosts over SSH and on local disks- log entries split- column-split, log4j support- date auto-parsing in logs, support for 90% popular formats (search in logs considering date of entry)- filters (contains, date, etc.) We are sure you will enjoy the following cartoon that gives a brief explanation of the key features of Retrospective: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1pJn8ZEHRTE We would be very grateful for any comments on our forum: http://forums.centeractive.com/viewforum.php?f=3 For more information please visit: http://www.retrospective.centeractive.com/ To enter simply RSVP to this event and complete the questions. Raffle Organised by RecWorks **Please note this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place**
**Please note this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place** RAFFLE - 5x iBooks: Websockets by Scott Mattocks from Developer Press We have been generously offered five iBooks to raffle to LJC members. The winners will be picked at random on Monday 12th November and announced on this page. To enter simply RSVP to this event and complete the questions. Developer Press is the new one-stop-shop digital book store from S & S Media. We produce books that present the reader with the latest in cutting-edge development and advancements in the technology world, creating books that are convenient (40-100 pages in length), low cost and instantly accessible. Our aim is to spread the knowledge of innovators worldwide by efficiently publishing titles on various digital platforms that cover in-depth topics including Mobile, Java, .NET, Web Development and PHP. Websockets by Scott Mattocks - Browser and server technologies are continuously opening new doors for web developers. What was virtually impossible in a web application just a few years ago is now common place. WebSockets are one of the newest technologies to push the boundaries by offering real-time communications outside the confines of HTTP. This book gives you the details you need to take advantage of WebSockets and turn your web site into a web application. See here for details:http://www.developer-press.com/ To enter simply RSVP to this event and complete the questions. Raffle Organised by RecWorks **Please note this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place**
**Please note this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place** RAFFLE - 2x VIP User Group tickets for Jfokus Conference - Sweden 5/6th Feb13 Following the announcement of Jfokus 2013, we have been generously donated two VIP User Group tickets for Jfokus conference days to raffle to two lucky LJC members. The winner will be picked at random on Monday 19 Nov. To enter simply RSVP to this event and complete the questions. The Jfokus conference is being run by our friends in Sweden on 5-6thFebruary 2013. It's a 3 day, JVM-centric conference held in Stockholm (Sweden). Theyare especially interested in meeting more of the London JavaCommunity. There will be representatives from companies like Cloudera, Google,Oracle and VMWare delivering speeches on a host of Java-relatedtechnologies including EE, SE, cloud, Android, Scala, HTML5 and many,many more. This will be the 7th instalment of Jfokus and more than1350 people are expectedto attend, so it would be a great chance to network withother developers. It's worth highlighting that our very own, Martijn Verburg, will alsobe delivering a presentation. Other than Martijn Verburg, here are some of the announced speakers atJfokus 2013 -Venkat Subramaniam Design Patterns in modern JVM Languages & Scala Tricks-Carl Quinn Netflix OSS Cloud Architecture-Justin Lee WebSocket and Java EE: A State of the Union-Seth Ladd Web Components Now-Raffi Krikorian Real-Time Delivery Architecture at Twitter-Kohsuke Kawaguchi Large-Scale Automation with Jenkins-Heinz Kabutz Deadlocks and Concurrent Testing in Java-Eva Andreasson Big Data Real World Use Case-and many more If you're interested, you can check out all the details out at:http://www.jfokus.com. Here is a link to our developer careers site with a post on how toencourage your employer to give you time off (or even sponsor yourticket) to the conference -http://developercareers.wordpress.com/2011/10/25/developer-conferences-why-employers-should-encourage-developers-to-attend/ Please note that this prize does not include travel/accommodation costs. To enter simply RSVP to this event and complete the questions. Raffle Organised by RecWorks **Please note this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place**
The London Developer Sessions This is our monthly social gathering, which incorporates members of The London Java Community and Graduate Developer Communities. This is an informal social evening most of the evening will be spent having ad-hoc informal discussions in small groups. We are back to The Slug and Lettuce this month: 19/20 Hanover Street, London http://www.slugandlettuce.co.uk/hanover_street/. We have had some fantastic feedback from those who have attended the event at this venue before and will be holding this month's event in the same great location. The venuehas a nicely sized function room with its own private bar, there are some great offers on beer, there is free wi-fi and it's easy to move around and chat to lots of people. Most importantly it is a friendly and relaxed environment where developers can get together to chat and network. The event will kick off at 6:30 PM and usually goes on until around 11:30 with members coming and going at all times throughout the evening. We usually attract 50 70 members so it is a lively event in which members, both junior and senior, can connect in a relaxed atmosphere and set the development world to rights. Refreshments are kindly being sponsored by Retrospective - http://www.retrospective.centeractive.com/ Barry or another RecWorks team member will be onsite so if anyone is looking for free recruitment advice it's a great chance to come along for a chat. Organised by RecWorks: This event is kindly being sponsored by:
London Java Community Open Conference Details of the Conference sessions proposed are being placed on the LJC Open Conference website Directions to venue (Google Map)The entrance to the IBM offices is on Upper Ground (Google Street View) opposite the junction of Cornwall street. You will see a driveway going up to the first floor of the building, walk up the footpath on this driveway to arrive at the entrance to the IBM building. Rough Schedule overview:8.30 am Sign-in hands over to security (will be very slow)9.30 am Brief introduction, discussing how day will work and organising the board10.10 am Conference Keynote12.40 Lunch5.30 pm Conference wrap up5.30 pm+ Social event TBC Conference overviewLJC Conference #5 is a one day event where you can attend a wide range of talks, workshops and practical sessions, drawn from the experiences of those in industry. Its a great opportunity to learn withup to 30 sessions during the day, including a keynote, lightning talks, open source project overviews, a Java 7 track, discussion groups and a whole lot more. What people said about our previous conferences (see photos): "Fantastic day, learned a great deal and made some valuable connections with people in the industry, more of these please""Amazing forum. Met some of the best minds in the field. Inspired me to learn more and work harder.. ""Brilliant time! Learnt a lot and met a lot of great people. Look forward to the next one :-)""An excellent opportunity to learn more about things I should know about but didn't" Those who want to can get more involved and are encouraged to share there ideas and experiences. Some sessions have already been proposed, why not let us know what you want to see or present? You can also come up with ideas and sessions on the morning of the conference (as with an unconference)!! We encourage you to talk about a wide range of topics, not just specifics of the Java language, Spring, Hibernate, Open Source, OSGi, etc, but also about tools and practices - eg. software craftsmanship, BDD, TDD, Kanban, Agile and other practices that enhance our world. Due to the diversity of the Java ecosystem in terms of languages, we have many people from the Groovy, Scala and Clojure user groups will be sharing their experiences. The open conference has a minimal payment to cover costs of food and venue. No payment is made to speakers from this entry fee. If you are unable to pay via Paypal, please contact the organiser directly and we will try to seek alternative solution.
**Please note this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place** RAFFLE: 1x Ticket to Tech Mesh: The Alternative Programming Conference We have been generously offered a ticket to Tech Mesh: The Alternative Programming Conference to raffle to one lucky LJC member. The winner will be picked at random on Monday 26th November. To enter simply RSVP to this event and complete the questions. Information from the organisers: Check out Tech Mesh - The Alternative Programming Conference. The event is designed to support and promote useful non-mainstream technologies in the software industry and will bring together users and inventors of various languages and technologies. It takes place in London, between the 4th and 6th of December 2012. The conference idea was born from the growing awareness among IT architects, software developers and project managers that often a less known solution is "the right tool for the job". Talk topics will include alternative solutions adopted by established companies such as Facebook, the Standard Chartered Bank or Credit Suisse. Over 50 speakers will be giving talks on Erlang, OTP, Scala, Akka, Raspberry Pi, F#, Haskell, Go, OCaml and much more. See the full schedule here: http://techmeshconf.com/techmesh-london-2012/schedule/index.jsp ;. Topics Include: - The Language of the system - What roles emergent languages play in the system as a whole, their characteristics, and the choices involved. Rich Hickey is the author of the Clojure programming language and designer of the Datomic database system. - Implementing Riak in Erlang: Benefits and Challenges - The choice of using Erlang has resulted in both benefits and challenges to the Basho team and Riak community. Basho Technologies architect Steve Vinoski will tell you all about the process - From Java to Erlang Thinking: From designing systems in Java to designing in Erlang. Kresten Krab Thorup is the chief architect and co-founder of EOS Trifork, a vendor of J2EE compatible application servers. - Faith, Evolution, and Programming Languages: from Haskell to Java - Philip Wadler offers a historical perspective on the development of programming languages, considering the roles of faith and evolution - Haskell: practical as well as cool - Co-inventors of Haskell Simon Peyton Jones, Philip Wadler and John Hughes will talk together about three distinctive aspects of Haskell that might make it worth the bother. - 183 Years of Programming - For the first time in history, co-inventors of Erlang Joe Armstrong, Robert Virding and Mike Williams will be sharing their experience in a joint keynote You can now get your ticket for Tech Mesh The Alternative Programming Conference at a 20% discount off the standard rate. All you need to do is register through our website and enter the promotion code TECHMESH_FRIEND See all details of the event here: http://techmeshconf.com/ See you at Tech Mesh! To enter simply RSVP to this event and complete the questions. Raffle Organised by RecWorks **Please note this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place**
**Please note this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place** RAFFLE: 1 ticket to NoSQL Roadshow London on 6th December We have been generously offered a ticket to the NoSQL Roadshow London (6th Dec) to raffle to one lucky LJC member. The winner will be picked at random on Thursday 29th November. To enter simply RSVP to this event and complete the questions. Information from the organisers: The NoSQL Roadshow is designed for software developers, cloud architects, data managers, IT architects and tech ambassadors. It is an ideal opportunity for learning, networking and tracking innovations happening in the NoSQL solutions area such as: Riak, Hadoop, Cassandra, MongoDB, Neo4j, Aerospike and many others. It's going to be an informative 1 day session with 10 presentations designed to give you an overview of the changing landscape around data management After introducing the business problems, you will learn how to attack these growing issues and hear first-hand how organisations were able to solve their modern data problems with innovative solutions The NoSQL Roadshow London takes place on 6th of December 2012 in Crowne Plaza London - The City. More information is available at: http://nosqlroadshow.com/ Attendees can register at: https://secure.trifork.com/nosql-london-2012/registration/ Please use the promotional code -JAVA30 - to receive 30% off the usual cost. This prize does not include travel/accommodationcosts. To enter simply RSVP to this event and complete the questions. Raffle Organised by RecWorks **Please note this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place**
Clojure for Java Developers Presented by John Stevenson (@jr0cket) Learning a new language is one of the best things a developer can do to broaden their experience and adapt different approaches into their work. The greater the difference in language principles and syntax, the more you can benefit. Learning a functional programming language can also help you make more of the current trend of multi-core CPU architecture. Clojure is a new functional programming language for the Java platform and yet based on one of the oldest languages still in use, Lisp. Clojure in my humble opinion is one of the most beautiful languages I have used. Its simplicity of syntax & design approach makes it a really powerful general purpose language. Using the concept of REPL driven programming, I will introduce you to the concept and syntax of the language. I'll also cover the key tools and libraries that help you develop applications quickly and effectively. Topics include: * Clojure syntax & the dynamic nature of Clojure* Atomic & aggregate data types* Java interoperability & underlying Java objects* Immutability & managing state* Homoiconisity & macros* Building Clojure projects & dependency management with Leiningen* Repl driven programming with LightTable & Emacs Maybe some graphics fun with Quil if there is time! Who should attend: This session is suitable for anyone who is a developer, or studying to be a developer. Whilst comparisons will be made to the Java language, tools & ecosystem, Java is not a pre-requisite to discover Clojure. Agenda: 18:30: Doors Open18:45: 'Clojure for Java Developers' presented by John Stevenson (60 mins approx.)19:45: Networking Please Note: This event is being held in theDarwin B15 Lecture Theatre at UCL,Gower Street, London, WC1E 6BT. The entrance is on Gower Street -http://www.ucl.ac.uk/find-us/?locationID=15 After event informal drinks: We will head to 'Hotel Ibis - London, Euston, St Pancras' - 3 Cardington Street, London, NW1 2LW - for networking and further informal discussion.http://www.ibishotel.com/gb/hotel-0921-ibis-london-euston-st-pancras/location.shtml Refreshments are kindly being sponsored by Retrospective - http://www.retrospective.centeractive.com/ Organised by RecWorks: This event is kindly being sponsored by:
***Please note this is an online monthly prize draw and no actual meeting will take place*** Feel the Qualtity This month were offering a chance to win one of six books that can help you to improve quality in the code, build and security of your applications. To find out more read this month'sblog post on the LJC Book Club. Oracle Certified Associate, Java SE 7 Programmer Study Guide Sonar Code Quality Testing Essentials Apache Maven 3 Cookbook Jenkins Continuous Integration Cookbook Java EE 6 Cookbook for Securing, Tuning, and Extending Enterprise Applications Advanced Penetration Testing for Highly-Secured Environments: The Ultimate Security Guide To take part in the promotion all you have to do is RSVP to this event on Meetup and complete the questions. Packt Publishing are a unique publishing company specializing in highly focused books on specific technologies and solutions - please visit their site to find out more about them:www.packtpub.com Each month we run a promotion with Packt in which LJC members will be selected at random to receive free books. This month we are offering 2 LJC members the chance to win; First Prize Winner will receive 1 print copy of his/her choiceRunner Up Winner - 1 ecopy of his/her choice Please visit the Packt site atwww.packtpub.com Good luck! Organised by RecWorks ***Please note this is an online monthly prize draw and no actual meeting will take place***
PLEASE NOTE THIS IS A JBUG EVENT NOT AN LJC EVENT. WE ARE USING THE LJC TO GENERATE PUBLICITY OF THE EVENT. C2B2 ARE HANDLING THE ATTENDANCE TO THE EVENT. TO GUARANTEE A PLACE YOU MUST REGISTER YOUR DETAILS HERE: http://www.c2b2.co.uk/london_jbug_december_2012 JBUG London Event: jBPM5 - The Evolution of BPM Systems jBPM5 provides a fresh and new approach to the BPM Arena, for that reason Mauricio Salatino and Esteban Aliverti wrote the jBPM5 Developer Guide. During the first 30 minutes a quick introduction about the framework presenting the book and the concepts covered in the first 5 chapter will take place. During the second half we will spend some time analyzing how the Drools and jBPM5 provides an unique Platform to run not only Business Processes. The second half of the book will be covered, showing advanced use cases that take full advantage of the Business Rule and the Business Process Engines. Agenda: 18:00 - 18:15 - Coffee, Welcome and Networking18:15 - 19:15 - jBPM5 - The Evolution of BPM Systems' by Mauricio Salatino and Esteban Aliverti19:15 - 19:45 - Beer, Pizza and Networking19:45 - 20:30 - Lightning Talks / Problem Solving session Speakers' Bio: Mauricio Salatino: Drools & jBPM5 Core Developer @ Red Hat, Mauricio has being an active Drools and jBPM community member since 2008. He is the author of the jBPM and jBPM5 Developer Guide Books for Packt Publishing. Mauricio has also won the JBoss Community 2011 Award Winner for Bug Fixes and New Features. Esteban Aliverti: jBPM5/Drools Independent Consultant. With a vast experience on these two frameworks, Esteban provided his consultant and training services in some of the most important companies all around the world. In 2012 he wasrecognized as a JBoss Community Leader during the JBoss Community Recognition Awards. For more details about the event: http://www.meetup.com/JBoss-User-Group/events/85267232/ PLEASE NOTE THIS IS A JBUG EVENT NOT AN LJC EVENT. WE ARE USING THE LJC TO GENERATE PUBLICITY OF THE EVENT. C2B2 ARE HANDLING THE ATTENDANCE TO THE EVENT. TO GUARANTEE A PLACE YOU MUST REGISTER YOUR DETAILS HERE: http://www.c2b2.co.uk/london_jbug_december_2012
**Please note this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place** 24 HOUR RAFFLE: 1x Licence - jClarity Censum We have been generously offered a licence to raffle to one lucky LJC member. The raffle will run for 24 hours and the winner announced asap after. To enter simply RSVP to this event and complete the questions. Information about the prize: Founded by members of the LJC, jClarity is a performance tools & automation firm. We're really excited to be releasing our first product, a Garbage Collection (GC) log analysis tool, called jClarity Censum. http://www.jclarity.com/products/censum/Censum eats GC log files and displays analytics and detailed graphswhich show all aspects of GC, and can spot potential problems. If you're having GC problems, Censum is the tool to help you diagnose& fix them. As a special thank you to the LJC, we're giving away a licence to onelucky member. Sign up for the competition in order to be in with achance of winning. If you're having GC or performance problems, then come and talk to us- either at an event or by email: ben@jclarity.com. We're always happy to hear about challenges you're facing and to see if there's anything we can do to help. Raffle Organised by RecWorks **Please note this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place**
***Please note this is an online monthly prize draw and no actual meeting will take place*** Here is the Cloud The cloud looks to be one of those disruptive technologies. Companies working at the extremes of scalability, such as Google, Amazon and Rackspace, used commodity hardware to build vast data centres at low costs. Now mainstream companies are trying to adopt those technologies to get more computing power with a lower investment in infrastructure. This month were offering a chance to win one of six books that can help you to improve quality in the code, build and security of your applications. To find out more read this month'sblog post on the LJC Book Club. Amazon SimpleDB Developer Guide Infinispan Data Grid Platform IBM WebSphere eXtreme Scale 6 Oracle Coherence 3.5 OpenStack Cloud Computing Cookbook OpenNebula 3 Cloud Computing To take part in the promotion all you have to do is RSVP to this event on Meetup and complete the questions. Packt Publishing are a unique publishing company specializing in highly focused books on specific technologies and solutions - please visit their site to find out more about them:www.packtpub.com Each month we run a promotion with Packt in which LJC members will be selected at random to receive free books. This month we are offering 2 LJC members the chance to win; First Prize Winner will receive 1 print copy of his/her choiceRunner Up Winner - 1 ecopy of his/her choice Please visit the Packt site atwww.packtpub.com Good luck! Congratulations to last month's winners: Hemal Shah and Craig Blackman! Organised by RecWorks ***Please note this is an online monthly prize draw and no actual meeting will take place***
**Please note this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place** Win a free ticket to WSO2Con 2013! We have been generously offered a free ticket to WSO2Con 2013 to raffle to one lucky LJC member. The raffle will run for 48 hours and the winner will be announced on Thursday morning. To enter simply RSVP to this event and complete the questions. Information from the organiser: WSO2s annual user conference is back, and this year WSO2Con takes place in London on February 12 - 14, 2013. WSO2Con 2013 will explore technology insights and best practices in the areas of API management, service-oriented architecture (SOA), cloud computing, mobile computing, data and analytics, application development, enterprise integration, governance, business services, and REST. The pre-conference tutorials day and two day conference feature talks by WSO2 customers, users, and partners, along with WSO2s own technology thought leaders. It brings together developers, architects, and directors, along with speakers from 10 different countries and various industries such as retail, banking, telecom, insurance, and finance. The three guest keynote speakers at WSO2con 2013 are some of the worlds famous innovators in open source, cloud, SOA, enterprise applications, middleware, and infrastructure technologies: Brian Behlendorf, World Economic Forum, Senior Advisor for Science and Technology - How Open Source Can Still Save the World Pankaj Srivastava, Cisco Systems, Vice President, Industry Solutions Group - Network-embedded Application and Cloud Platforms: Emerging Foundations of Next-Generation Business Systems Eben Upton, Raspberry Pi Foundation, Founder and Trustee - Democratizing Innovation in Computing Stand a chance to win a free ticket to WSO2con by RSVPing to this event and completing the questions. For more information visit - http://wso2con.com/ Please note: This prize does not include travel/accommodation costs. Your contact information may be passed on to the sponsor of this raffle. Raffle Organised by RecWorks **Please note this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place**
The London Developer Sessions This is our monthly social gathering, which incorporates members of The London Java Community and Graduate Developer Communities. This is an informal social evening most of the evening will be spent having ad-hoc informal discussions in small groups. We are back to The Slug and Lettuce this month: 19/20 Hanover Street, Londonhttp://www.slugandlettuce.co.uk/hanover_street/. We have had some fantastic feedback from those who have attended the event at this venue before and will be holding this month's event in the same great location. The venuehas a nicely sized function room with its own private bar, there are some great offers on beer, there is free wi-fi and it's easy to move around and chat to lots of people. Most importantly it is a friendly and relaxed environment where developers can get together to chat and network. The event will kick off at 6:30 PM and usually goes on until around 11:30 with members coming and going at all times throughout the evening. We usually attract 50 70 members so it is a lively event in which members, both junior and senior, can connect in a relaxed atmosphere and set the development world to rights. Barry or another RecWorks team member will be onsite so if anyone is looking for free recruitment advice it's a great chance to come along for a chat. Thanks to Atlassian for their generous sponsorship of the event. Please check out these offers from them. Atlassian Stash - Git Repository Management for Enterprise Teams.Behind the firewall Git management for your source. Create and manage repositories, set up fine-grained permissions, and collaborate on code secure, fast and enterprise-grade.Free 10-user license using coupon code STASH-LJC-13 at http://www.atlassian.com/freestarter BitBucket - Git and Mercurial Hosting For Teams.Host your code online in as many public and private repositories as you want.Free 5-user tier accounts! Sign up at https://bitbucket.org/ <strong style="color : #ff9900">Organised by RecWorks:
*Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link:http://skillsmatter.com/podcast/agile-testing/garbage-collection-the-useful-parts * <strong style="color : #ff9900">Presented by Martijn Verburg and John Oliver: Garbage Collection - The Useful Parts This presentation will give the busy Java/JVM developer an overview of how Garbage Collection in the JVM works and the common collectors that are used. We'll also cover how to read and interpret the scary log format and most importantly, offer strategies to deal with badly behaving memory (e.g. The dreaded OOME!). Who Should Attend: Any Java or JVM language developer who wants to learn about the deep dark secrets of the GC sub system. Bios: Martijn Verburg: Martijn has over 12 years experience as a technology professional and OSS mentor in a variety of environments from start-ups to large enterprises. Some career highlights include overhauling technology stacks and SDLC practices at major IBs, mentoring large vendors on technical community management, and running large distributed development teams at a variety of organisations. He is the co-leader of the London Java Community (over 2800 developers) and leads the global effort for the Java User Group "Adopt a JSR" and "Adopt OpenJDK" programmes. Martijn's book "The Well-Grounded Java Developer" (with Ben Evans) was published by Manning in 2012. As a leading expert on technical team optimisation, his talks and presentations are in high demand by major conferences (JavaOne, Devoxx, OSCON, FOSDEM, QCon, etc). Often you'll find him challenging the industry status quo in his alter ego "The Diabolical Developer". Martijn holds a BSc in Computer Science and a BCA in Information Systems from Victoria University of Wellington. John Oliver: John is a keen developer and Matlab guru. John has performed research and development in many languages for 15 years, on various platforms from micro controllers, robots, simulations, desktop applications and web services. He has previously worked on static analysis tools and is particularly interested in reducing our reliance on the relatively blunt and time consuming tools such as unit testing. John also has a special ability to make our continuous deployment chain just work. He delivers all sorts of interesting analysis on our raw data, and is interested in bringing signal processing and machine learning techniques to analysing performance problems...despite us endlessly needling him about his love for Matlab. John holds a PhD in Engineering from Warwick University working on algorithms for coordinating mobile robotic teams. During his study he performed extensive work on both physical and simulated robotic platforms. Agenda: 18:00/18:30: Doors Open18:30 Martijn Verburg and John Oliver will present "Garbage Collection - The Useful Parts"20:00/20:30: Networking Please Note: Nearest tube: BarbicanNearest Coffee Shop: Sun Coffee Shop, 55-63 Goswell Road, London, EC1V 7EN for if you arrive earlyFor after event drinks: The White Lion, 37 Central Street, City Road, London, EC1V 8AB *Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link:http://skillsmatter.com/podcast/agile-testing/garbage-collection-the-useful-parts * Event Organised by RecWorks
London Java Community - Meet a Project Are you looking to join an existing open source project, but don't know where to start? Are you interested in finding out more about open source software in general? Are you looking to start a personal project but don't know what to base it on? Are you interested in trying out some new technologies and wondering how to use them in a personal project? If the answer is yes, this event could be for you.This is part of the MaP series of events designed to connect open source software projects and potential contributors. It will be in a speed networking style, involving Project Ambassadors speaking to small groups of 3-6 developers. Giving a pitch of an open source or personal project, then answering questions before moving on to another group. The events are intended to answer potential contributors questions around the projects, focussed mainly around starting points. There are a lot of developers in the industry, from students to experienced developers that are interested to get involved in something in addition to their day time position, but aren't really sure where to start. There are also a great deal of interesting projects covering everything from popular open source frameworks to the Adopt a JSR program launched by the LJC. Many of these projects rely on support/enthusiasm from developers and are keen to get more enthusiastic people involved. Not to mention that most candidates that get involved in personal projects seem to escalate their careers, salaries, day rates and passion for the industry. You will get a chance to meet project leads for 3-6 different projects and discuss the differences between them and their experience with open source development and their experiences in general. Please note: This event is being held at University College London, Gower Street, WC1E 6BT in rooms: Foster Court 113, Foster Court 123 and Foster Court 132. Please refer to this map:http://www.ucl.ac.uk/find-us/?locationID=13 We will head to 'Hotel Ibis - London, Euston, St Pancras' - 3 Cardington Street, London, NW1 2LW - for networking and further informal discussion after the event:http://www.ibishotel.com/gb/hotel-0921-ibis-london-euston-st-pancras/location.shtml <strong style="color : #ff9900">Organised by RecWorks:
Greenfoot Event Presented by Michael Klling (bio below). This presentation will show you how to engage young programmers (teenagers from 14 years old upwards, and young adults) with programming in Java. We will show Greenfoot, an engaging, fun-to-use, educational Java environment and give plenty of tips about teaching and motivating kids to code. If you have kids yourself, or want to help out in your local school, or set up an after school programming club, or anything else that involves teaching beginners to program, then this presentation should contain plenty of tips, ideas and useful information for you. We will cover technical aspects of coding with Greenfoot, including an introduction to writing computer games in 20 minutes, and plenty of teaching tips. The talk will consist mostly of live demo, including programming with gadgets, such as the Kinect. Who should attend: This talk is for anyone who wants to teach others (kids or adults) about object-oriented programming and Java. Bio: Michael Klling is a Professor at the School of Computing, University of Kent, in Canterbury, UK. He holds a PhD in computer science from Sydney University, and has worked in Australia, Denmark and the UK. Michaels research interests are in the areas of object-oriented systems, programming languages, software tools, computing education and HCI. He has published numerous papers on object-orientation and computing education topics and is the author and co-author of two Java textbooks. Michael is the lead developer of BlueJ and Greenfoot, two educational programming environments. He is a UK National Teaching Fellow, Fellow of the UK Higher Education Academy, Oracle Java Champion, and a Distinguished Educator of the ACM. Agenda: 18:30: Doors Open18:45/19:00: Main talk presented byMichael Klling (45 mins approx.)19:45/20:00: Networking Please note: Please refer to this map for directions to the venue:http://www.ucl.ac.uk/find-us/?locationID=143 Visitors should enter through:Roberts Building,Malet Place,Off Torrington Place (opposite Waterstones),WC1E 7JE We will head to 'Hotel Ibis - London, Euston, St Pancras' - 3 Cardington Street, London, NW1 2LW - for networking and further informal discussion after the event:http://www.ibishotel.com/gb/hotel-0921-ibis-london-euston-st-pancras/location.shtml Event Organised by RecWorks
**Please note this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place** PRIZE DRAW: OpenShift Primer, an ebook by Eric D. Schabel Developer.Press has just released OpenShift Primer, an ebook by Eric D. Schabel, and they have 50 copies to giveaway! About the book: OpenShift is Red Hat's free, auto-scaling PaaS for applications, which manages the stack and lets you focus on your code. So if you're sick of requesting a new development machine or having to setup a new test environment for your application, OpenShift is for you. Eric has written OpenShift Primer specifically to get you started in a hands-on fashion. Developer focused, it concentrates on getting you working on your code in the Cloud in the shortest amount of time. And based on real world examples, the book covers all of the languages available to you in OpenShift. So whether your tipple is Java, Ruby, Node.js, Python, PHP or Perl, this Primer is right for you. To enter simply RSVP to this event and complete the questions, making sure you leave your email address. Your entry will not be valid if you do not leave an email address. The draw will be made on 30/1/13 and winners will be notified by Developer.Press that day. Please note your information will be passed on to the sponsor.This book is produced by Developer.Press, a publisher offering excellent technical books for only $2 to $6. So if youre a developer wanting access to great technical content without having to pay over the odds, check out www.developerpress.com Developer.Press regularly have giveaways on newly released books, so keep an eye out via the website and on Twitter @DeveloperPress. Good luck! **Please note this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place**
***Please note this is an online monthly prize draw and no actual meeting will take place*** Looking back at 2012 What did you do last year? Here in the LJC Book Club we gave away lots of books generously provided by Packt publishing. All together there were 24 lucky winners. This month were offering another chance to win one of six books that were given away in the first half of 2012. To find out more read this month's blog post on the LJC Book Clu. Apache JMeter Google App InventorJIRADevelopment CookbookWordPress 3 Complete Service Oriented Architecture: An Integration Blueprint Java 7 New Features Cookbook To take part in the promotion all you have to do is RSVP to this event on Meetup and complete the questions. Packt Publishing are a unique publishing company specializing in highly focused books on specific technologies and solutions - please visit their site to find out more about them:www.packtpub.com Each month we run a promotion with Packt in which LJC members will be selected at random to receive free books. This month we are offering 2 LJC members the chance to win; First Prize Winner will receive 1 print copy of his/her choiceRunner Up Winner - 1 ecopy of his/her choice Please visit the Packt site atwww.packtpub.com Good luck! Congratulations to Edward Yue Shung Wong and Mykolas Juraitis who both won a prize in December's competition. Organised by RecWorks ***Please note this is an online monthly prize draw and no actual meeting will take place***
*Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: http://skillsmatter.com/podcast/home/websock-json-hack-day <strong style="color : #808080">* WebSocket & JSON Hack Day During this evening we will be exploring two new Java APIs that will be introduced into JavaEE 7 standards (scheduled to be released in Q2 this year): 1.The new web protocol WebSocket offers an efficient 2 way communications between the client and the server. This protocol is expected to be of great importance in web development over the next few years. A new Java API will be introduced with JSR 356 covering a Java based server and client. 2.JSON is a light weight data format used usually to exchange data between the front and the back end of a web application. Most social media sites provide update feeds in JSON format. A new API for JSON processing will be introduced with JSR 353 into the JavaEE platform. The evening will start with a presentation about APIs. We will also have some code using the APIs to handle live market data using yahoo finance and live social media feeds. We will be using the Reference Implementation (RI) of these standards provided in GlassFish 4. Please bring your laptop with you. The number of places is limited. So if you confirmed attending and your circumstances changed please update your status. Bios: Somay Nakhal have keen interest in web technologies and led development projects at a number of British household names.Somay is Sun Certified Java Programmer and Sun Certified Web Component Developer. He has a BSc in Computer Science and PGDip in Software Engineering. David Illsley is a technologist with a focus on distributed systems, and occasionally a standards wonk.Currently a tech lead at the Government Digital Service, working to transform public sector digital services, he's previously worked on packaged software, delivering cloud services, open source development, and large scale grid technology. *Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: http://skillsmatter.com/podcast/home/websock-json-hack-day *
*Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: http://skillsmatter.com/event/home/performance-special-interest-group<strong style="color : #808080">* Bring your Performance Problems Panel This event brings together some of Londons top performance experts and gives you the opportunity to ask them questions about topics of your choice. The questions could be about a variety of topics: * Performance problems youve encountered when developing software.* What methodologies should you use when diagnosing a problem?* How to fit performance testing and tuning into your normal development methodology.* Tools and software: anything from NoSQL databases and concurrent messaging frameworks to sun.misc.Unsafe. In order to submit a question, just comment on this event or tweet a question with the hashtag #ljcperfpanel. The discussion should be suitable for any member to attend. The panel members are: <strong style="color : #ff9900">Peter Lawrey<strong style="color : #ff9900">Millenium Capital Partners Innovative developer of high performance Java Systems for competitive advantage. Developer of the Java Chronicle library. 19 years experience designing, developing and supporting leading edge high performance systems. Peters blog has had over one million hits in the last 18 months and is a Dzone Most Valued Blogger. <strong style="color : #ff9900">Martijn Verburg<strong style="color : #ff9900">jClarity Martijn is the CTO of jClarity - a Java/JVM performance tooling company for cloud and enterprise deployments. He focuses on demystifying performance jargon and likes to get people to firstly think about the methodology of approaching a problem. "Measure, don't Guess" Most of you will know him as the co-leader of the LJC where he leads the global effort for the Java User Group "Adopt a JSR" and "Adopt OpenJDK" programmes. Martijn's book "The Well-Grounded Java Developer" (with Ben Evans) was published by Manning in 2012. His talks and presentations are in high demand by major conferences (JavaOne, Devoxx, OSCON, FOSDEM, QCon, etc). Often you'll find him challenging the industry status quo in his alter ego "The Diabolical Developer", which he'll probably bring out on the panel :-). <strong style="color : #ff9900">Manik Surtani<strong style="color : #ff9900">Red Hat/JBoss Manik Surtani is a core R&D engineer at JBoss, Red Hat's middleware division. He is the founder of the Infinispan project, and Platform Architect of the JBoss Data Grid. He is also the spec lead of JSR 347 (Data Grids for the Java Platform), and represents Red Hat on the Expert Group of JSR 107 (Temporary caching for Java). His interests lie in cloud and distributed computing, big data and NoSQL, autonomous systems and highly available computing. <strong style="color : #ff9900">Jeremy Whiting <strong style="color : #ff9900">Red Hat/JBoss Jeremy Whiting is a Senior Software Engineer working at Red Hat in the JBoss middleware division. Currently in the Performance team and previously on the JBoss Transactions team. He is a technical representative for Red Hat on the Java committee of the Standardised Performance Evaluation Corporation. Participating in the the development of standardised performance benchmarks and peer review of published results. Performance analysis and tuning of open source operating systems and JEE middleware is a great challenge which he relishes. The panel will be moderated by Richard Warburton. *Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: http://skillsmatter.com/event/home/performance-special-interest-group*
Hack the Tower - February 2013 An all day hackathon for the technical communities in London. Its a great chance to build apps with other developers and discovering how to get the most out of new technology and practices. Working together helps developers tackle technical challenges and techniques that are common regardless of language (github pull requests, using NoSQL data source, managing deployment, etc). Rough Schedule10.00am - Find the Salesforce office in Tower42, refreshments after your adventure10.15am - Discuss your application ideas & how to build them.10.45am - Split into groups and get going12.30pm - Lunch time (sandwiches, queche, fruit and drinks provided)01.00pm - Keep on hacking until you have had enough Born out of a London Scala community hackathon, we now get members from Java, Clojure, forcedotcom and Scala development communities. Anything (legal) is up for grabs. Previously, developers have discovered more about functional programming, Play2 framework, MongoDB, Travis-CI, Neo4j Heroku & Forcedotcom and much more. Projects that have previously been worked on include * a new website to manage the Scala community using play, mongodb and heroku. The site pulls in data from a range of sources * building a clojure repl in a browser, discovering aspects such as clojail and compojure along the way * an open source app for charity donation management There has been interest in working on codingboard.org, a Java performance project and a robots framework in Java, Python or Clojure. Sign up You need to register here on the London Java Community event, or if you prefer on the London Scala Community or London Salesforce community. You only need to register once. Please include your your full name so I can organise a visitor pass for Tower 42. In total, there is space for around 50 developers on the day. Food & drink will be provided, thanks to Salesforce.com Important: Access details Please ensure your full name is used when registering as this is needed by building security to let you in. Finding the office in Tower42 As you enter Tower42, go to the front desk and give your name to receive a visitor pass for the building. Go up the escalators to security, your bag will be quickly scanned and you pass through a metal detector. Once through security, take the escalators immediately to your left - following the blue path. Walk all the way round to lifts and take the lift to the 24th floor. At the 24th floor, get out of the lift and cross the hallway. Take the blue lifts to the 27th floor. Exiting the lift to your left you will find the Salesforce office
The London Developer Sessions This is our monthly social gathering, which incorporates members of The London Java Community and Graduate Developer Communities. This is an informal social evening most of the evening will be spent having ad-hoc informal discussions in small groups. We are back to The Slug and Lettuce this month: 19/20 Hanover Street, Londonhttp://www.slugandlettuce.co.uk/hanover_street/. We have had some fantastic feedback from those who have attended the event at this venue before and will be holding this month's event in the same great location. The venuehas a nicely sized function room with its own private bar, there are some great offers on beer, there is free wi-fi and it's easy to move around and chat to lots of people. Most importantly it is a friendly and relaxed environment where developers can get together to chat and network. The event will kick off at 6:30 PM and usually goes on until around 11:30 with members coming and going at all times throughout the evening. We usually attract 50 70 members so it is a lively event in which members, both junior and senior, can connect in a relaxed atmosphere and set the development world to rights. Barry or another RecWorks team member will be onsite so if anyone is looking for free recruitment advice it's a great chance to come along for a chat. Organised by RecWorks:
***Please note this is an online monthly prize draw and no actual meeting will take place*** Well Grounded February see's the start of our regular reading schedule. Our first book, the Well Grounded Java Developer, provides a whistle-stop tour of everything that is important right now in the world of Java Development: new language features, the underlying JVM, alternative languages and continuous integration. After these brief introductions readers will want to dig deeper, and this month we'll be looking at a selection of books offered by Packt Publishing that will be perfect for taking things further. To find out more read this month's blog post on the LJC Book Club. Java 7 New Features Cookbook Oracle JRockit: The Definitive Guide Groovy for Domain-Specific Languages Grails 1.1 Web Application Development Apache Maven 3 Cookbook Jenkins Continuous Integration Cookbook To take part in the promotion all you have to do is RSVP to this event on Meetup and complete the questions. Packt Publishing are a unique publishing company specializing in highly focused books on specific technologies and solutions - please visit their site to find out more about them:www.packtpub.com Each month we run a promotion with Packt in which LJC members will be selected at random to receive free books. This month we are offering 2 LJC members the chance to win; First Prize Winner will receive 1 print copy of his/her choiceRunner Up Winner - 1 ecopy of his/her choice Please visit the Packt site atwww.packtpub.com Good luck! Organised by RecWorks ***Please note this is an online monthly prize draw and no actual meeting will take place***
*Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: http://skillsmatter.com/podcast/home/git-from-the-bits-up<strong style="color : #808080">* Git from the Bits Up - Presented by Tim Berglund So you've gotten a handle on Git and know how to use it for everyday development tasks like committing code and pushing and pulling changes with the rest of the team. But do you really know how it works under the covers? In this talk, we'll commit a file to a brand new repository without ever touching the git add or git commit commands, and in the process learn some critical Git internals that every power user should know. We'll also take a look at some advanced history and undo commands like reflog and reset, and how to rewrite past mistakes with interactive rebase. Bring your questions and Git challenges for 90 minutes of advanced Git fun! Who Should Attend: This session will appeal to people who want to learn more about Git. They will learn some Git internals that will help them in their everyday Git usage. Any developer or designer will benefit, but especially devs who already know a little bit of Git. Bio: Tim is a full-stack generalist and passionate teacher who loves working with people as much as he loves to code. He is a GitHubber whose mission is to make it easy for everybody in the world to use Git. He is a speaker internationally and on the No Fluff Just Stuff tour in the United States, who loves to speak on Git, Cassandra, and other topics. He is co-president of the Denver Open Source User Group, co-presenter of the best-selling O'Reilly Git Master Class, co-author of Building and Testing with Gradle, a member of the O'Reilly Expert Network, and a member of the GigOM Pro Analyst Network. He occasionally blogs at http://timberglund.com. He lives in Littleton, CO, USA with the wife of his youth and their three children. Agenda: 18:30: Doors Open18:45: A series of lightning talks from members of The London Java Community - subjects to be announced.19:00: 'Git from the Bits Up' presented by Tim Berglund (60 mins approx.)20:15/30: Networking -The Old Ivy House Pub, 166 Goswell Road EC1V 7DT Please Note: Nearest tube: BarbicanNearest Coffee Shop: Sun Coffee Shop, 55-63 Goswell Road, London, EC1V 7EN for if you arrive earlyAfter event drinks venue:The Old Ivy House Pub, 166 Goswell Road EC1V 7DT www.oldivyhouse.co.uk Refreshments are being kindly sponsored byGitHub. *Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link:http://skillsmatter.com/podcast/home/git-from-the-bits-up* Event Organised by RecWorks
PLEASE NOTE THIS IS A JBUG EVENT NOT AN LJC EVENT. WE ARE USING THE LJC TO GENERATE PUBLICITY OF THE EVENT. C2B2 ARE HANDLING THE ATTENDANCE TO THE EVENT. TO GUARANTEE A PLACE YOU MUST REGISTER YOUR DETAILS HERE:http://www.c2b2.co.uk/london_jbug_march_2013 JBUG London Event: Easy Integration with Apache Camel and Fuse IDE Presentation In this talkJames Strachan will give an overview of the Apache Camel project and how it can be used to solve your integration problems. We will introduce the Enterprise Integration Patterns & show how Camel can implement them easily using Domain Specific Languages and use them to connect to any middleware, transports, protocols or services.James will then demonstrate how to create projects & work with the Enterprise Integration Patterns visually at design time and runtime with Fuse IDE & how to deploy locally and onto the cloud. Speaker James Strachan is heavily involved in the open source community. He has been an Apache committer for 10 years, created the first version of Apache Camel, was one of the founders of the Apache ActiveMQ and ServiceMix projects. He created the Groovy programming language, as well as a number of other open source projects including Scalate, dom4j, and Jaxen and a committer on a number of projects such as Apache Karaf. James is currently Senior Consulting Software Engineer at Red Hat and has more than 20 years experience in enterprise software development with a background in finance, consulting, and middleware. Agenda18:00 - 18:15 - Coffee, Welcome and Networking18:15 - 19:30 - 'Easy integration with Apache Camel and Fuse IDE' by James Strachan19:30 - 19:50 - 'Sugar lumps for Camels' by Neil Machell19:50 - 20:30 - Beer, Pizza and Networking For more details about the event: http://www.meetup.com/JBoss-User-Group/events/102513792/ PLEASE NOTE THIS IS A JBUG EVENT NOT AN LJC EVENT. WE ARE USING THE LJC TO GENERATE PUBLICITY OF THE EVENT. C2B2 ARE HANDLING THE ATTENDANCE TO THE EVENT. TO GUARANTEE A PLACE YOU MUST REGISTER YOUR DETAILS HERE:http://www.c2b2.co.uk/london_jbug_march_2013
QCon London - LJC User Group Meeting <strong style="color : #808080">**Please note this is anLJC event. QCon are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: https://secure.trifork.com/london-2013/freeevent/index.jsp?eventOID=4948 ;** With great help from the organisers of QCon we have been able to secure a speaker for a special LJC event held at QCon. We are lucky to have Arun Gupta speaking on Thursday 7th March at 18:30. The event will be held at The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre. Arun Gupta will present: Java EE 7 Platform: Boosting Productivity and Embracing HTML5 The Java EE 7 platform focuses on Productivity and HTML5. JAX-RS 2 adds a new Client API to invoke the RESTful endpoints. JMS 2 is undergoing a complete overhaul to align with improvements in the Java language. Long awaited Batch Processing API and Concurrency API are also getting added to build applications using capabilities of the platform itself. Together these APIs will allow you to be more productive by simplifying enterprise development. WebSocket attempts to solve the issues and limitations of HTTP for real-time communication. A new API is getting added to build WebSocket driven applications. Processing JSON structures is inherent in any HTML5 applications and a new API to parse and generate JSON is being added to the platform. JavaServer Faces is adding support reusable flows and HTML5 friendly markup. There are several other improvements coming in this latest version of the platform. The Java EE 7 platform is scheduled to release in Q2 2013. Some of the implementations are already integrated in GlassFish. This talk will provide a code-intensive introduction to the updated Java EE 7 platform. Several live demos will be shown during the talk. Don't miss out on this session to learn all about how to leverage the new and exciting standards in building your next enterprise application. Please Note: Please see here for venue information and location:http://qconlondon.com/london-2013/venue/ Registration is on the ground floor and the location of the room will be signposted. You'll receive an email with further instructions just before the event. **Please note this is anLJC event. QCon are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: https://secure.trifork.com/london-2013/freeevent/index.jsp?eventOID=4948 ;**
**Please note this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place** RAFFLE: 2x User Group tickets for MongoDB London - April 9, 2013 We have been generouslydonated two General Admission tickets for the MongoDB London conference* toraffle to two lucky LJC members. The winner will be picked at randomon Monday 11th March, and announced shortly afterwards. To enter simply RSVP to this event and complete the questions. Information from the organiser: MongoDB London is the annual user conference in the UK dedicated to the open source, non-relational databaseMongoDB. AtMongoDB London, you will be able to connect with fellowMongoDB developers and 10gen engineers, including10gen's co-founder and CTOEliot Horowitz and the LJC's very ownTrisha Gee. This year we have a track dedicated to new features in 2.4 (text search, security, and improvements to geo, sharding, and aggregation) as well as case studies from Telefonica, YouWin, eXo Platform, Server Density, and more. Check out the full line uphere. MongoDB "Ask the Experts" And due to popular demand, at MongoDB London there will be several opportunities to "Ask the Experts" -- that is MongoDBoffice hours for anyone who wants to have 15 minutes alone to ask a 10gen engineer a question directly. Register before March 8 to take advantage of early bird pricing that is only $75. Not a winner? Don't miss the Special User Group discount! Members of the London Java Communituy can get an exclusive discount on tickets for the MongoDB London conference: just enter promo codeLJC10 when making your booking and save an additional 10% on the early bird ticket price. *prize does not include travel or accommodation Raffle Organised by RecWorks **Please note this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place**
Github is probably the worlds most popular developer resource for sharing code collaboratively. However, many developers haven't had the opportunity to get going with Git yet. So this is a beginners workshop to give you practice and confidence using git. If you have not used git very much and are unsure what clients to use, how to work with git log, git status and multiple repositories, then this is the workshop for you. For those who already are comfortable cloning and forking projects, I plan to create a more advanced course in the coming weeks. This workshop is purely for beginners. Important Please bring a laptop with you to this event. There will not be a slide presentation, this event is purely practical Schedule6pm - find the 10Gen office on 2nd floor6.30pm - workshop starts By the end of this workshop you should have:* git command line / graphical tool set up on your laptop* understanding staging, committing and pushing changes* working with git status and git log to manage changes* experience using github for new repos as well as forking & cloning* managing multiple repositories easily with git log* working with pull request* using github organisations This workshop is focused on using git as a developer and will not be diving under the covers of git, or covering any implementation details.
Github is probably the worlds most popular developer resource for sharing code collaboratively. However, many developers haven't had the opportunity to get going with Git yet. So this is a beginners workshop to give you practice and confidence using git. If you have not used git very much and are unsure what clients to use, how to work with git log, git status and multiple repositories, then this is the workshop for you. For those who already are comfortable cloning and forking projects, I plan to create a more advanced course in the coming weeks. This workshop is purely for beginners. Important Please bring a laptop with you to this event. There will not be a slide presentation, this event is purely practical Schedule6pm - find the 10Gen office on 2nd floor6.30pm - workshop starts By the end of this workshop you should have:* git command line / graphical tool set up on your laptop* understanding staging, committing and pushing changes* working with git status and git log to manage changes* experience using github for new repos as well as forking & cloning* managing multiple repositories easily with git log* working with pull request* using github organisations This workshop is focused on using git as a developer and will not be diving under the covers of git, or covering any implementation details.
**Please note this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place** Raffle: 1x Free Ticket to Devoxx UK! - March 26/27th, 2013 We have a ticket to give away for one lucky LJC member forDevoxx UK! Devoxx UK is the LJC backed non-profit conference that will become a regular fixture for the LJC every year going forwards! The Steering committee, programme committee, volunteer team and some of the speakers all come from the LJC and so this is your conference and your party! Seehttp://www.devoxx.co.uk for further details. General Info:http://www.devoxx.com/display/UK13/ Schedule: http://www.devoxx.com/display/UK13/Schedule Practical: http://www.devoxx.com/display/UK13/Practical To enter simply RSVP to this event and complete the questions The ticket will be raffled off by Friday 15th March and the winner announced on this page later in the day Friday. For those of you still after tickets you can still get one athttp://reguk.devoxx.com Devoxx Newsletter 9 is out with a focus on embedded devices, robotics and other topics for the future! -http://bit.ly/Y7bDoo *prize does not include travel or accommodation **Please note this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place**
The London Developer Sessions This is our monthly social gathering, which incorporates members of The London Java Community and Graduate Developer Communities. This is an informal social evening most of the evening will be spent having ad-hoc informal discussions in small groups. We are back to The Slug and Lettuce this month: 19/20 Hanover Street, Londonhttp://www.slugandlettuce.co.uk/hanover_street/. We have had some fantastic feedback from those who have attended the event at this venue before and will be holding this month's event in the same great location. The venuehas a nicely sized function room with its own private bar, there are some great offers on beer, there is free wi-fi and it's easy to move around and chat to lots of people. Most importantly it is a friendly and relaxed environment where developers can get together to chat and network. The event will kick off at 6:30 PM and usually goes on until around 11:30 with members coming and going at all times throughout the evening. We usually attract 50 70 members so it is a lively event in which members, both junior and senior, can connect in a relaxed atmosphere and set the development world to rights. Barry or another RecWorks team member will be onsite so if anyone is looking for free recruitment advice it's a great chance to come along for a chat. Developer sessions sponsored byAtlassian, creators ofJIRA,Confluence &Greenhopper. Tools for developers, by developers. Organised by RecWorks:
London Java Community - Meet a Project Are you looking to join an existing open source project, but don't know where to start? Are you interested in finding out more about open source software in general? Are you looking to start a personal project but don't know what to base it on? Are you interested in trying out some new technologies and wondering how to use them in a personal project? If the answer is yes, this event could be for you.This is part of the MaP series of events designed to connect open source software projects and potential contributors. It will be in a speed networking style, involving Project Ambassadors speaking to small groups of 3-6 developers. Giving a pitch of an open source or personal project, then answering questions before moving on to another group. The events are intended to answer potential contributors questions around the projects, focussed mainly around starting points. There are a lot of developers in the industry, from students to experienced developers that are interested to get involved in something in addition to their day time position, but aren't really sure where to start. There are also a great deal of interesting projects covering everything from popular open source frameworks to the Adopt a JSR program launched by the LJC. Many of these projects rely on support/enthusiasm from developers and are keen to get more enthusiastic people involved. Not to mention that most candidates that get involved in personal projects seem to escalate their careers, salaries, day rates and passion for the industry. You will get a chance to meet project leads for 3-6 different projects and discuss the differences between them and their experience with open source development and their experiences in general. Please note: This event is being held at University College London, Gower Street, WC1E 6BT in: Darwin B40 Lecture Theatre Please refer to this map:http://www.ucl.ac.uk/find-us/?locationID=84 We will head to 'Hotel Ibis - London, Euston, St Pancras' - 3 Cardington Street, London, NW1 2LW - for networking and further informal discussion after the event:http://www.ibishotel.com/gb/hotel-0921-ibis-london-euston-st-pancras/location.shtml Refreshments kindly being sponsored by Red Hat:Red Hat is the world's leading provider of open source solutions, using a community-powered approach to provide reliable and high-performing cloud, virtualization, storage, Linux, and middleware technologies. Read thecompany brochure.http://www.redhat.com Organised by RecWorks:
**Please note this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place** Raffle: 2x Free Ticket to NoSQL Roadshow Munich - April 16th, 2013 We have been generouslydonated two tickets to NoSQL Roadshow Munich toraffle to two lucky LJC members. The winner will be picked at random on Thursday 21st March, and announced shortly afterwards. To enter simply RSVP to this event and complete the questions. Information from the organiser: Ater a fabulous roadshows in 2012 with more than 27 different speakers and talks, 500+ engaged participants, and new takes on NoSQL we are ready to go on the road with a brand new concept. Still a one day intense program but now with 2 tracks one technical, one use case focused. This means more use cases, fresh technical deep dives and trainings by leading experts: Neo4j, Big Data Analyses with R and Riak tutorial. See http://nosqlroadshow.com for further details. Schedule: http://nosqlroadshow.com/nosql-munich-2013/schedule/index.jsp ; For those of you still after tickets you can still get one at https://secure.trifork.com/nosql-munich-2013/registration/, early bird rate valid until 31st of March! *Please note the prize does not include travel/accommodation **Please note this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place** Raffle Organised by RecWorks
*Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: http://skillsmatter.com/podcast/home/london-java-community-march<strong style="color : #808080">* What do you mean, backwards compatibility? Presented by Trisha Gee. The Java driver for MongoDB is the most... mature... of the NoSQL databases drivers. It was designed without some of the modern Java features we now take for granted (generics, Im looking at you), and is the sort of API that might be much easier with the eagerly anticipated lambdas in Java 8. Although figures are hard to come by, the existing Java driver might even be the most used of all of all the MongoDB drivers. Which leads to a tricky question: how do you create a new API that utilises modern development patterns, whilst retaining backwards compatibility for your users? These users are fundamental to the success of your business - you do not want to upset them, alienate them, break their systems or make it hard for them to migrate to the New World Order. In this presentation Trisha will share some of the pain experienced and solutions tried along the journey of creating a new Java driver for MongoDB. You might even get a sneak peek at it long before its due for release. Bio: Trisha is a developer at 10gen (the MongoDB company). She has expertise in Java high performance systems, is passionate about enabling developer productivity, and has a wide breadth of industry experience from the 12 years she's been a professional developer. Trisha is a leader in the London Java Community, and involved in the Graduate Development Community, she believes we shouldn't all have to make the same mistakes again and again. *Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: http://skillsmatter.com/podcast/home/london-java-community-march* Organised by RecWorks
**Please note this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place** Raffle: 2x free ticket to Couchbase [UK] - April 11, 2013 We have been generouslydonated two tickets to Couchbase (UK) toraffle to two lucky LJC members. The winner will be picked at random on Monday 25th March, and announced shortly afterwards. To enter simply RSVP to this event and complete the questions. Information from the organiser: Couchbase [UK] is a one-day event for anyone interested in learning more about NoSQL and document database technology. If you're evaluating NoSQL for your projects or just learning about NoSQL for the first time, join Couchbase in London next month at Congress Centre. Tons of cool technical content, awesome user speakers like Betfair, The Hut Group, and Skyscanner, and a post-conference pub crawl will all be part of the day. Check out the full agenda at http://www.couchbase.com/couchbase-london *Please note the prize does not include travel/accommodation To enter simply RSVP to this event and complete the questions. **Please note this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place** Raffle Organised by RecWorks
The London Java User Group in association with Oracle and IBM invite you to the first OpenJDK 'TestFest' event. Similar in style to a HackDay, this all-day event is an opportunity to learn more about OpenJDK unit testing, how to write testcases for OpenJDK and maybe even find some bugs in JDK8. To guide you through this day we've enlisted some well known Development and QA figures from OpenJDK. If you are interested in how QA works for a large project like JDK8 , have contributions you need help with in creating testcases or just want the opportunity to help improve the quality of JDK8, this day is for you. There are only 27 places available - first come first served. When: Saturday March 23rd 2013 Where : Oracle Corporation UK Ltd.Cook Room, 5th FloorOne South PlaceLondonEC2M 2RB A large glass fronted building on the corner of Moorgate/City http://goo.gl/maps/uMKOw http://www.oracle.com/uk/corporate/contact/map-oracle-london-316349-en-gb.pdf Lunch and refreshments provided Background Why are we holding a TestFest event? The simple answer is that OpenJDK needs more open testcases. Contributors to OpenJDK need to be confident that their changes are sound and do not cause problems elsewhere. The available testcases in OpenJDK are a great starting point. We want to build on those tests and expand both the number of tests and the test coverage of the JDK. We want to create a larger, more comprehensive, test suite for OpenJDK and we need your help to do that. This event is intended to help you learn more about the art of Quality Assurance and help the OpenJDK community determine if HackDays with a QA focus will be effective. Who's going to be there? Guest presenters from Oracle and IBM: Alan Bateman, Alexandre Iline, Stuart Marks, Rory O'Donnell, Steve Poole, Neil Richards, Paul Thwaite, Balchandra Vaidya, Skill Level Able to write Java programs and have some experience with writing testcases Agenda 09:40-10:00 am Doors Open10:00-10:10 IntroductionOpenJDK and Quality Assurance: Challenges and Progress 10:10-10:45 Openjdk test suite: OverviewWhat test suites we have Structure of test suites How we run the tests When we add tests The issues we have with tests 10:45 - 11:15 Introduction to the JTReg toolHow to use it and how to understand its output 11:15 - 11:45 Hands on session - write your first JTReg testcase for OpenJDKA simple,get set-up, exercise to make sure everyone is ready 11:45-12:15 Tutorial - Understanding how to design and code good testcasesJust like good code, good testcases need to be designed. Learn the basics of how to design testcases in general, and for OpenJDK in particular. 12:15-12:45 Lunch and general Q&A of the morning.12:45-13:15 Afternoon session introductionA quick outline how the rest of the day will work. We'll provide a list of candidate areas in JDK8 you might like to tackle 13:15-15:30 Hands on sessionWrite and run testcases with assistance from the team 15:30-15:40 Checkpoint: Feedback from the attendees.15:40-16:30 Hands on continues with those who wish to stay.16:30:17:00 Wrap up and collection of new testcases etc.Preparing for the day. 1 - Sign the OCA Contributing tests to OpenJDK stiil requires that you have signed the OCA. So the first step is simple: sign the OCA. The OCA process can take up to two weeks to complete. So we encourage you to start right now. Information about signing the OCA and what it means to be a Contributor are available here http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/oca-405177.pdf and here http://openjdk.java.net/contribute/ 2 - Install the JTReg tool and read the tutorial Instructions are available here https://wikis.oracle.com/download/attachments/48201916/jtreg-tutorial.pdf 3: Have a cloned copy of OpenJDK JDK8 source e.g hg clone http://hg.openjdk.java.net/jdk8/jdk8 jdk8local 4 - Have a copy of the JDK8 EA binary or the ability to build your own OpenJDK. EA Builds are available here http://jdk8.java.net/download.html 5 - Have an idea on an area of the JDK you might want to work on. Maybe even try to write a simple java test in an area you're are familiar with. Some ideas to get you thinking: * Tests for specific classes in Cobra, JDBC, JAXP etc.* Find a bug on http://bugs.sun.com and write a testcase for it.* Pick one of the new features in JDK8, read the javadoc and write a testcase to prove the behaviour* How about a edge case you might have encountered in the past - write a testcase to demonstrate it.* Use your personal domain knowledge. How about JSR 310? you know how date and times are supposed to work - see if you can break the implementation. On the day Bring a laptop and a power supply (don't forget it!) with all the software listed above installed. Doors open at 9:40. Oracle Security will have a list of attendees. Valid attendees will be guided to Oracle offices on the 5th Floor where the receptionist will greet them. (Walk-ins will not get past security!)
Java 8 introduces a new Javascript engine called Nashorn. Based on thenew InvokeDynamic technology, Nashorn is fully integrated, allowingthe full power of the JVM to be used on Javascript apps. With Nashorn, you will be able to: * Embed JavaScript into your Java apps to create effective JavaScriptapplications.* Call Java from Javascript & Javascript from Java* Benefit from JIT compilation of Javascript The HackDay will kick off with a short presentation to introduceNashorn & set the stage. During the main part of the hackday, you will work in teams to: * Build Nashorn on OpenJDK 8 (or use a pre-built VM)* Run off-the-shelf JavaScript libraries for templates, source minification etc.* Benchmark and compare the same code to the Mozilla Rhino interpreter* Document your experiences on a wiki to help others get started with Nashorn* Upload your code & tests to a github for others to use Please bring your laptop with you. The number of places is limited. So if you confirmed attending andyour circumstances changed please update your status. Organizers Bios Ben Evans is the CEO of jClarity, a startup which delivers performancetools to help development & ops teams. He is an organizer for the LJCand a member of the JCP Executive Committee, helping define standardsfor the Java ecosystem. He is a Java Champion & co-author of TheWell-Grounded Java Developer. Attila Szegedi is an engineer from the Nashorn team at Oracle. Priorto Oracle, he worked at Twitter & was their representative on the JCPExecutive Committee. Attila is the author of DynaLink - a dynamiclinkage package for JVM languages. Ben Summers is the Technical Director of ONEIS. He designs anddevelops the ONEIS Platform, a hosted information management systemextensible with server-side JavaScript plugins. Simon Maple is the Technical Evangelist for ZeroTurnaround and anassociate member of the LJC as well as the LJC JCP EC committee.Previously he worked as a developer and tester for IBM.
This is the big LJC backed non-profit conference that will become a regular fixture for the LJC every year going forwards! The Steering committee, programme committee, volunteer team and some of the speakers all come from the LJC and so this is your conference and your party! The ticket price is only 350 for the two days and you need to register at: http://reguk.devoxx.com Recent Newsletters with more details: * Initial Speakers, CFP - http://bit.ly/TIjbMo* Tracks, Content, More Speakers - http://bit.ly/SwSvix Full details: * See http://www.devoxx.co.uk for full details* Go to http://reguk.devoxx.com to register!* Submit papers to http://cfp.devoxx.com (closes end of Jan)! Tracks: 1. Java SE - For you core Java fans --> concurrency, JVM, performance tuning2. Java EE - For the enterprise folks --> Java EE 7, WebSockets, JSON, Spring3. Languages on the JVM - Polyglot Programming --> Groovy, Scala, Clojure and many more!4. Mobile - Making sense of 1000's of devices --> Android, Java ME and iOS..5. Architecture, Cloud and Security - 2013, year of JVM in the cloud --> Identity, Scaling, PAAS/SAAS/IAAS6. Web and Big Data - Connecting to the world today --> HTML5, JS, NOSQL, Data Grids and the like7. Methodology - How to do better than your PHB --> Beyond Agile.....8. The Future - Gaze into the crystal ball --> Robots, Embedded Devices, Space travel, Terminators?! Follow us on twitter --> @DevoxxUK
Hi all, Devoxx UK will open its doors on Tuesday the 26th of March in the evening as part of the LJC Community Night! Attendees will have free access to the Social event in the exhibition space, the Hacker Garden for some hands on coding and of course the BoF sessions including topics on Java EE, Hacking on Java itself and more! BOFs: http://www.devoxx.com/display/UK13/BOF+Day+1 The LJC stand will naturally be there and we'll likely finally get round to getting Barry to do some live coding for the crowd ;-).
***Please note this is an online monthly prize draw and no actual meeting will take place*** And Now For Something Completely Instant When was the last time you tried something completely different? Something that wasn't part of what you do already? It can be useful to try something that is completely outside what you normally do. It helps you to see things from a different perspective and challenges you preconceptions about how things need to be. The big problem is finding the time in a busy day to try new things. This is why this month we are focusing on Packt Publishing's Instant range. They are a set of short, to the point eBooks that show you how to do something new. Instants are eBooks only, so for this month only both the winner and the runner up will receive eBooks. That's different! To find out more read this month's blog post on the LJC Book Club. Instant Citrix XenDesktop 5 Starter Instant VMware vCloud Starter Instant Team Foundation Server 2012 and Project Server 2010 Integration How-to Instant Silverlight 5 Animation The New iPad: Using New Features in iOS 6 How-To InnoDB Quick Reference Guide To take part in the promotion all you have to do is RSVP to this event on Meetup and complete the questions. Packt Publishing are a unique publishing company specializing in highly focused books on specific technologies and solutions - please visit their site to find out more about them:www.packtpub.com Each month we run a promotion with Packt in which LJC members will be selected at random to receive free books. This month we are offering 2 LJC members the chance to win; First Prize Winner will receive 1 ecopy of his/her choice (for this month only)Runner Up Winner - 1 ecopy of his/her choice Please visit the Packt site atwww.packtpub.com Good luck! Organised by RecWorks ***Please note this is an online monthly prize draw and no actual meeting will take place***
Hack the Tower - February 2013 An all day hackathon for the technical communities in London. Its a great chance to build apps with other developers and discovering how to get the most out of new technology and practices. Working together helps developers tackle technical challenges and techniques that are common regardless of language (github pull requests, using NoSQL data source, managing deployment, etc). Read about the HackTheTower event in February to get a feel for the event. Rough Schedule10.00am - Find the Salesforce office in Tower42, refreshments after your adventure10.15am - Discuss your application ideas & how to build them.10.45am - Split into groups and get going12.30pm - Lunch time (sandwiches, queche, fruit and drinks provided)01.00pm - Keep on hacking until you have had enough Born out of a London Scala community hackathon, we now get members from Java, Clojure, forcedotcom and Scala development communities. Anything (legal) is up for grabs. Previously, developers have discovered more about functional programming, Play2 framework, MongoDB, Travis-CI, Neo4j Heroku & Forcedotcom and much more. Projects that have previously been worked on include * a new website to manage the Scala community using play, mongodb and heroku. The site pulls in data from a range of sources * building a clojure repl in a browser, discovering aspects such as clojail and compojure along the way * an open source app for charity donation management There has been interest in doing a Java performance projects and a robots framework in Java, Python or Clojure. Sign up You need to register here on the London Java Community event, or if you prefer on the London Scala Community or London Salesforce community. You only need to register once. Please include your your full name so I can organise a visitor pass for Tower 42. In total, there is space for around 50 developers on the day. Important: Access details Please ensure your full name is used when registering as this is needed by building security to let you in. Finding the office in Tower42 As you enter Tower42, take the escalators to the building reception. Upon giving your name you will receive a visitor pass for the building. Go to the far right and go through building security, your bag will be scanned and you pass through a metal detector. Once through security, take the escalators immediately to your left - following the blue path. Walk all the way round to lifts and take the lift to the 24th floor. At the 24th floor, get out of the lift and cross the hallway. Take the blue lifts to the 27th floor. Exiting the lift to your left you will find the Salesforce office
The London Developer Sessions This is our monthly social gathering, which incorporates members of The London Java Community and Graduate Developer Communities. This is an informal social evening most of the evening will be spent having ad-hoc informal discussions in small groups. We are back to The Slug and Lettuce this month: 19/20 Hanover Street, Londonhttp://www.slugandlettuce.co.uk/hanover_street/. We have had some fantastic feedback from those who have attended the event at this venue before and will be holding this month's event in the same great location. The venuehas a nicely sized function room with its own private bar, there are some great offers on beer, there is free wi-fi and it's easy to move around and chat to lots of people. Most importantly it is a friendly and relaxed environment where developers can get together to chat and network. The event will kick off at 6:30 PM and usually goes on until around 11:30 with members coming and going at all times throughout the evening. We usually attract 50 70 members so it is a lively event in which members, both junior and senior, can connect in a relaxed atmosphere and set the development world to rights. Barry or another RecWorks team member will be onsite so if anyone is looking for free recruitment advice it's a great chance to come along for a chat. Developer sessions sponsored byAtlassian, creators ofJIRA,Confluence &Greenhopper. Tools for developers, by developers. Organised by RecWorks:
*Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: http://skillsmatter.com/podcast/home/do-you-really-get-class-loaders<strong style="color : #808080">* Do you really get Class loaders? Presented by Simon Maple Class loaders are at the core of the Java language. Java EE containers, OSGi, NetBeans modules, Tapestry 5, Grails and many others use class loaders heavily. Yet when something goes wrong, would you know how to solve it? In this session we'll take a tour of the Java class loading mechanism, both from JVM and developer point of view. We will look at typical problems that you get with class loading and how to solve them. ClassNoDefError, IncompatibleClassChangeError, LinkageError and many others are symptoms of specific things going wrong that you can usually find and fix. For each problem we'll go through a hands on demo with a corresponding solution. We'll also take a look at how and why class loaders leak and how can you remedy that. ZeroTurnaround learnt more than they wanted to around class loaders when creating the JRebel product, which automatically reloads classes into a live runtime. There will also be a brief demo of the tool. There will be some powerpoint slides but the session will mostly be live demos and live coding. There will also be JRebel examples to show what is possible with class loaders. Who Should Attend: Suitable for: Junior to Intermediate Java developers Bio: Simon is a Technical Evangelist at ZeroTurnaround (a company who have had more interactions with class loaders than is healthy), but is less about preaching and more about discussion and interaction. His passion is around technical communities and is an active member of the London Java Community (LJC) organising group as well as the LJC JCP EC committee. Simon used to be a tester, developer and technical evangelist for IBM on the WebSphere Application Server for over 10 years prior to joining ZeroTurnaround. He enjoys playing and watching football (spherical variety), drinking tea and spending quality time with his family. <strong style="color : #ff9900">Agenda: 18:30: Doors Open18:45: A lightning talk from Robert Rees - "Feature releasing: Breaking the two-week cycle"19:00: Main presentation - presented by Simon Maple (90 mins approx.)20:30: After event drinks venue:The Old Ivy House Pub, 166 Goswell Road EC1V 7DT www.oldivyhouse.co.uk Please Note: Nearest tube: BarbicanNearest Coffee Shop: Sun Coffee Shop, 55-63 Goswell Road, London, EC1V 7EN for if you arrive early *Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: http://skillsmatter.com/podcast/home/do-you-really-get-class-loaders* Refreshments sponsored by ZeroTurnaround At ZeroTurnaround, we know how classloaders can hurt your brains. Therefore after you hear about them, there will be some swag giveaways as well as some beer to recharge at The Old Ivy House Pub. This one's on us! <strong style="color : #ff9900">Event Organised by RecWorks
***Please note this is an online monthly prize draw and no actual meeting will take place*** Beautiful Data Data is the New Soil It has been said that "Data is the New Oil." In his excellent Ted Talk David McCandless tells us that "Data is the New Soil": It feels like were all suffering from information overload, or data glut. And the good news is there might be an easy solution to that, and thats using our eyes more. So visualizing information, so that we can see the patterns and connections that matter, and then designing that information so it makes more sense, or it tells a story, or allows us to focus only on the information thats important. Visualizing information like this is a form of knowledge compression. Its a way of squeezing an enormous amount of information and understanding into a small space. http://www.cjr.org/the_news_frontier/data_is_the_new_soil.php?page=all There's a lot of value in creating something that take the information overload and transform it into a form that makes the story it tells clear. How can we as developers use data visualisation to make a difference? This month we shall look at books that show us how to design, display, store, access and secure data. With these tools in hand you are ready to inspire with the beauty of data. To find out more read this month's blog post on the LJC Book Club. Data Visualization: a successful design process HTML5 Graphing and Data Visualization Cookbook High Availability MySQL Cookbook Cassandra High Performance Cookbook Spring Data Spring Security To take part in the promotion all you have to do is RSVP to this event on Meetup and complete the questions. Packt Publishing are a unique publishing company specializing in highly focused books on specific technologies and solutions - please visit their site to find out more about them:www.packtpub.com Each month we run a promotion with Packt in which LJC members will be selected at random to receive free books. This month we are offering 2 LJC members the chance to win; First Prize Winner will receive 1 hard copy of his/her choiceRunner Up Winner - 1 ecopy of his/her choice Please visit the Packt site atwww.packtpub.com Good luck! Organised by RecWorks ***Please note this is an online monthly prize draw and no actual meeting will take place***
Improving ourselves as developers is a tough challenge. One of the main reasons for the LJCs existence is a space for us to learn from one another! Over the years, we've seen that a combination of personal study, community events & formal training provides the best learning experience for developers, and helps push them further along in their careers. In this session, Ben & Martijn will share their many years of experience teaching and mentoring developers to help you unlock the next levels of success in your career. We'll spend some time exploring what's missing within the Java training scene in London & what our event host, DeveloperFocus, can do to help fill that gap. Throughout the rest of 2013 Ben & Martijn will be working closely with DeveloperFocus to produce a fully rounded Java curriculum - and we want your input as to what you want to see to help you be more successful!
Garbage Collection - Tuning Guide Following on from their earlier Garbage Collection - The Useful Parts talk, Martijn and John return to give the busy Java/JVM developer an insight into how you analyse and resolve common Garbage Collection problems. Using popular applications such as Minecraft, they'll resolve problems such as OutOfMemoryErrors (OOME), long pause times, Premature Promotion and many more! They'll start by covering how developers should set their GC performance goals & how to get information out of a GC log. Then for a series of common GC issues,they'll show how to interpret the GC log data, tune the JVM in order to meet a stated performance goal, and show the result of that tuning. This session will give developers some practical guidance for them to start empirically solving GC problems as opposed to guessing! This talk is best suited for developers who have a basic understanding of Garbage Collection in the JVM (See this talk to get up to speed). Agenda: 18:30: Doors Open18:45: A series of lightning talks from members of The London Java Community - subjects to be announced.19:00: Main presentation20:30 approx: Networking - We will head to 'Hotel Ibis - London, Euston, St Pancras' - 3 Cardington Street, London, NW1 2LW - for networking and further informal discussion.http://www.ibishotel.com/gb/hotel-0921-ibis-london-euston-st-pancras/location.shtml Please Note: Please visit this link to find information on how to find this venue and room - http://www.ucl.ac.uk/find-us/?locationID=87 Event Organised by RecWorks
*Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: http://skillsmatter.com/podcast/java-jee/considerations-for-using-nosql-technology-on-your-next-it-project<strong style="color : #808080">* Considerations for using NoSQL technology on your next IT project - Presented by Akmal B. Chaudhri Over the past few years, we have seen the emergence and growth of NoSQL technology. This has attracted interest from organizations looking to solve new business problems. There are also examples of how this technology has been used to bring practical and commercial benefits to some organizations. However, since it is still an emerging technology, careful consideration is required in finding the relevant developer skills and choosing the right product. This presentation will discuss these issues in greater detail. In particular, it will focus on some of the leading NoSQL products and will discuss their architectures and suitability for different problems. Short demonstrations, using Java, with several leading NoSQL products are planned to give the audience a feel for the practical aspects of such products. Bio Akmal B. Chaudhriis a Developer Advocate at IBM UK. Akmal has been working with database technology since 1988. He has held roles as a developer, consultant and product strategist with Reuters, Logica, Computer Associates, Informix and IBM. He has published and presented widely on Java, XML and Database systems and edited or co-edited 10 books, and is now working on a new book on NoSQL technology. He has worked extensively on world-wide developer relations programs at IBM and world-wide university relations and academic initiative programs at Informix and IBM. His presentations are often very highly-rated by attendees for content, impartiality and entertainment. He holds a BSc (1st Class Hons.) in Computing and Information Systems, MSc in Business Systems Analysis and Design and a PhD in Computer Science. He is a Member of the British Computer Society (MBCS) and a Chartered IT Professional (CITP).Personal Website:about.me/akmalchaudhri Twitter: @akmalchaudhri Agenda: 18:30: Doors Open18:45: A series of lightning talks from members of The London Java Community - subjects to be announced.19:00: Main presentation - presented by Akmal B. Chaudhri20:30: Networking -The Old Ivy House Pub, 166 Goswell Road EC1V 7DT Please Note: Nearest tube: BarbicanNearest Coffee Shop: Sun Coffee Shop, 55-63 Goswell Road, London, EC1V 7EN for if you arrive earlyAfter event drinks venue:The Old Ivy House Pub, 166 Goswell Road EC1V 7DT www.oldivyhouse.co.uk *Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: http://skillsmatter.com/podcast/java-jee/considerations-for-using-nosql-technology-on-your-next-it-project* Event Organised by RecWorks
Donald Raab will cover the latest developments in the GS Collections framework which has been developed over the past 9 years at Goldman Sachs and which is now open sourced on GitHub (https://github.com/goldmansachs/gs-collections). GS Collections has a very rich and fluent API that developers can take advantage of today in Java 5 7. The addition of lambdas in Java 8 will make the APIs even more fun and productive to use. Donald has over 20 years of software development experience, with companies including IBM and Goldman Sachs. Don coded for seven years professionally in the Smalltalk programming language, which formed a solid base for understanding Collections and Closures. Please provide your full name when your RSVP for Goldman Sachs building security.
With the release of Java 8 Lambdas, there is considerable interest in the performance of Lambda expressions. Goldman Sachs have developed a high-performance collections library, which has already been forward-ported to Lambdas. Join Donald Raab (Goldman Sachs), Richard Warburton (jClarity) & Ben Evans (jClarity) as we discuss microbenchmarking (MBMs), the different tradeoffs present in library development (as opposed to app dev) & what we may expect from JDK 8 lambdas & libraries built on top of them. We will explore performance benchmarks in the form of hands-on katas developed by GS for their Collections libraries & consider how these ideas can be extended to cover JDK 8 Lambdas & beyond. This event is graciously sponsored & hosted by Oracle.
*Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: http://skillsmatter.com/podcast/home/high-performance-design<strong style="color : #808080">* High Performance Design event - Presented by Nick Zeeb When economic news comes out, trading volumes spike and the LMAX Exchange needs to push out the latest prices to all of our clients as fast as possible. This presentation is about how we solved this problem by using Test Driven Design. It will show, step by step, how we created a lock-free, high performance data structure by using knowledge of how modern processors are designed. Who Should Attend: Anyone interested in writing high performance code. This talk covers the entire design story starting from how we approached the problem, all the way down to the low-level code tweaks to squeeze out the last drop of performance. <strong style="color : #ff9900">Bio: Nick Zeeb is a core Java developer at LMAX Exchange in London. LMAX operates a financial exchange that is capable of handling 20,000 orders per second with a mean latency of 1.5 milliseconds. Nick has been involved in the financial industry since 2006 and has seen some interesting times while working at a hedge fund, an investment bank and now an exchange Twitter: @NickZeeb <strong style="color : #ff9900">Agenda: 18:15: Doors Open18:30: A series of lightning talks from members of The London Java Community - subjects to be announced.18:45: Main presentation - presented by Nick Zeeb (60 mins approx.) <strong style="color : #ff9900">Please Note: Nearest tube: BarbicanNearest Coffee Shop: Sun Coffee Shop, 55-63 Goswell Road, London, EC1V 7EN for if you arrive earlyAfter event drinks venue:The Old Ivy House Pub, 166 Goswell Road EC1V 7DT www.oldivyhouse.co.uk *Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: http://skillsmatter.com/podcast/home/high-performance-design* Refreshments after the event are kindly being sponsored by Datastax <strong style="color : #ff9900">Event Organised by RecWorks
The London Developer Sessions This is our monthly social gathering, which incorporates members of The London Java Community and Graduate Developer Communities. This is an informal social evening most of the evening will be spent having ad-hoc informal discussions in small groups. We are back to The Slug and Lettuce this month: 19/20 Hanover Street, Londonhttp://www.slugandlettuce.co.uk/hanover_street/. We have had some fantastic feedback from those who have attended the event at this venue before and will be holding this month's event in the same great location. The venuehas a nicely sized function room with its own private bar, there are some great offers on beer, there is free wi-fi and it's easy to move around and chat to lots of people. Most importantly it is a friendly and relaxed environment where developers can get together to chat and network. The event will kick off at 6:30 PM and usually goes on until around 11:30 with members coming and going at all times throughout the evening. We usually attract 50 70 members so it is a lively event in which members, both junior and senior, can connect in a relaxed atmosphere and set the development world to rights. Barry or another RecWorks team member will be onsite so if anyone is looking for free recruitment advice it's a great chance to come along for a chat. Developer sessions sponsored byAtlassian, creators ofJIRA,Confluence,Greenhopper, Stash and much, much more. Tools for developers, by developers Organised by RecWorks:
PLEASE NOTE THIS IS A JBUG EVENT NOT AN LJC EVENT. WE ARE USING THE LJC TO GENERATE PUBLICITY OF THE EVENT. TO GUARANTEE A PLACE YOU MUST REGISTER YOUR DETAILS HERE:http://www.meetup.com/JBoss-User-Group/events/115317302/ <strong style="color : #808080">JBUG Event: What's new in Drools 6.0 Presentation Drools 6.0 introduces new approaches for authoring, building, deploying and utilising rules. Using convention and configuration, over programmatic apis, in an effort to simplify the experience for end users. This talk,presented by Mark Proctor - Platform Architect at Red Hat - will take users through the new web based IDE (built with UberFire) for authoring and deploying rules, and then utilising them on the client side. It will also introduce the other new 6.0 features, including our new lazy rule engine algorithm. Ideally attendees will have a basic understanding of Drools and rule engines. For more details about the event:http://www.meetup.com/JBoss-User-Group/events/115317302/ PLEASE NOTE THIS IS A JBUG EVENT NOT AN LJC EVENT. WE ARE USING THE LJC TO GENERATE PUBLICITY OF THE EVENT. TO GUARANTEE A PLACE YOU MUST REGISTER YOUR DETAILS HERE:http://www.meetup.com/JBoss-User-Group/events/115317302/
***Please note this is an online monthly prize draw and no actual meeting will take place*** Data Science The role of Data Scientist is new and important. Big Data is seen as the key area for innovation, and the Data Scientist is a key role in putting Big Data to work. So who are the Data Scientists, what do they do and does it include skills that we as developers may want to acquire? The Data Scientist mines data for useful insights. It's a role that is closely related to the Computer Scientist, the role often fulfilled by developers like us. Last month we looked at the tools used by the Computer Scientist, this month we look at the skills and tools needed by the Data Scientist. The Data Scientist Role In his Book "Data Visualisation - a Successful Design Process" Andy Kirk identifies the "Eight Hats" of data visualisation design: The Initiator - The leader who is seeks a solution. The Data Scientist - The data miner, wearing a miners hat, discovering nuggets of insight buried deep within the numbers. The Journalist - the story teller who refines the insight with narrative and context. The Computer Scientist - The person who breaths life into the project with their breadth of software and programming literacy. The Designer - With an eye for visual detail and a flair for innovation they work with the computer scientist to ensure harmony between form and function. The Cognitive Scientist - Brings an understanding of visual perception, colour theories and human-computer interaction to inform the design process. The Communicator - The negotiator and presenter who acts as the client-customer-designer gateway. The Project Manager - The co-ordinator who picks up the unpopular duties and makes sure that the project is cohesive, on time and on message. These are hats, and we will probably find ourselves wearing several of them over time. As you can see, Data Visualisation requires us to pull together a range of disciplines in order to achieve something meaningful. Last month we focused on the skills of the Computer Scientist, looking at the skills needed to pull the data out of the repository and put it in front of the audience. This month we are looking at the skills of the Data Scientist. Here's Kirk's full description: The data scientist is characterized as the data miner, wearing the miner's hat. They are responsible for sourcing, acquiring, handling, and preparing the data. This means demonstrating the technical skills to work with data sets large and small and of many different types. Once acquired, the data scientist is responsible for examining and preparing the data. In this proposed skill set model, it is the data scientist who will hold the key statistical and mathematical knowledge and they will apply this to undertake exploratory visual analysis to learn about the patterns, relationships, and descriptive properties of the data. From Chapter 2 of Data Visualisation - A Successful Design Process Last month we talked about data being the new soil. The data scientist is a miner who digs down deep. It is a pivotal roll in the design process. Kirk elaborates further: If we don't have the data we want, or the data we do have doesn't tell us what we hoped it would, or the findings we unearth aren't as interesting as we wish them to be there is nothing we can (legitimately) do about it. That is an important factor to remember. No amount of 3D-snazzy-cool-fancy-design dust sprinkled on to a project can change that. An incomplete, error strewn or just plain dull dataset will simply contaminate your visualization with the same properties. So, the primary duty for us now is to avoid this happening, remove all guessing and hoping, and just get on with the task of acquiring our data and immerse ourselves into it to learn about its condition, its characteristics, and the potential stories it contains. From Chapter 3 of Data Visualisation - A Successful Design Process This month we're going to look at some of the tools we can use as Data Scientists to immerse ourselves in the data. Tools that will help us to interact with our data, drill down into it's seams and discover what nuggets lie within. See the blog post on the LJC Book Club for more details. If you want to have a chance of winning one of this months books then please sign up on the Meetup page. At the end of May the lucky winner will get to choose a physical copy and the runner up can select an ebook. Data Visualisation: a successful design process Learning Highcharts for Javascript Data Visualisation Data Analysis Cookbook Statistical Analysis with R - Beginners Guide MapReduce Cookbook Infinispan Data Grid Platform To take part in the promotion all you have to do is RSVP to this event on Meetup and complete the questions. Packt Publishing are a unique publishing company specializing in highly focused books on specific technologies and solutions - please visit their site to find out more about them:www.packtpub.com Good luck! Organised by RecWorks ***Please note this is an online monthly prize draw and no actual meeting will take place***
*Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link:http://skillsmatter.com/podcast/home/java-development-testing* Java Development Testing A technical and interactive presentation on how Development Testing is addressing the ever changing landscape of software delivery: high quality, secure applications, limited resources and an ever increasing pressure to launch faster across multiple channels! Suited to a technical audience from developers, architects, testers to managers, this talk will be presented by Coverity, the global leaders in Development Testing. Topics include: Software complexity, static analysis, finding and fixing critical defects and security vulnerabilities, raising quality and accelerating time to market. How this complementary methodology is supporting developers education to write better code and free up QA and SA teams to focus on functionality, UX and network security. Automated unit testing a powerful new slant on line coverage, and finally how all this can seamlessly integrate into your existing workflow, including Agile! Bio: Ian Ashworth started his career as a civil and structural engineer but let his passion for software engineering preside. He followed a typical pathway as a developer, rising up the ranks to management and then later applying his expertise as a technical consultant within the financial services sector. He brings years of experience working with various technologies and methodologies across a range of domains and now works with many well-known global brands helping them adopt Coveritys Development Testing platform.. <strong style="color : #ff9900">Agenda: 18:15: Doors Open18:30: A series of lightning talks from members of The London Java Community - subjects to be announced.18:45: Main presentation - presented by Ian Ashworth (60 mins approx.)20:00 approx: Networking and informal discussion at:The Old Ivy House Pub, 166 Goswell Road EC1V 7DT www.oldivyhouse.co.uk Please Note: Nearest tube: BarbicanNearest Coffee Shop: Sun Coffee Shop, 55-63 Goswell Road, London, EC1V 7EN for if you arrive earlyAfter event drinks venue:The Old Ivy House Pub, 166 Goswell Road EC1V 7DT www.oldivyhouse.co.uk *Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link:http://skillsmatter.com/podcast/home/java-development-testing* Refreshments are being kindly sponsored by Coverity Development testing complements traditional software testing, including Quality Assurance (QA) testing and security audits, empowering developers to find and fix quality and security issues as code is written. Market-leading organizations use development testing as a catalyst to transform software testing from a reactive to a proactive process, and into a competitive advantage. Event Organised by RecWorks
Hack the Tower - June 2013 A hack day for the technical communities in London. Its a great chance to build apps with other developers and discover how to get the most out of new technology and practices. Bring your own projects to work on, or join in with others on their ideas. Working together helps developers tackle technical challenges and techniques that are common regardless of language (github pull requests, using NoSQL data source, managing deployment, etc). Read about theHackTheTower event in February to get a feel for the event. See theHack The Tower website for details on some of the projects we have been working on. This will be the last Hack The Tower for a while due to the summer holidays and hopefully moving to a bigger tower :) Rough Schedule10.00am - Find the Salesforce office in Tower42, refreshments after your adventure10.15am - Discuss your application ideas & how to build them.10.45am - Split into groups and get going12.30pm - Lunch time (sandwiches, queche, fruit and drinks provided)01.00pm - Keep on hacking until you have had enough Sign up You need to register here on the London Java Community event, or if you prefer on theLondon Scala Community orLondon Salesforce community. You only need to register once. Please include your your full name so I can organise a visitor pass for Tower 42. In total, there is space for around 50 developers on the day. Important: Access details Please ensure your full name is used when registering as this is needed by building security to let you in. Finding the office in Tower42 As you enter Tower42, take the escalators to the building reception. Upon giving your name you will receive a visitor pass for the building. Go to the far right and go through building security, your bag will be scanned and you pass through a metal detector. Once through security, take the escalators immediately to your left - following the blue path. Walk all the way round to lifts and take the lift to the 24th floor. At the 24th floor, get out of the lift and cross the hallway. Take the blue lifts to the 27th floor. Exiting the lift to your left you will find the Salesforce office
<strong style="color : #808080">*Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link:http://skillsmatter.com/podcast/home/cloud-computing-concepts-technology-and-architecture* Cloud Computing <strong style="color : #ff9900">Concepts, Technology and Architecture To mark the official release of the book "Cloud Computing: Concepts, Technology and Architecture" the LJC Book Club is holding a special event. Cloud Computing is an important technology that we all need to get to grips with. This isn't easy when there is so much confusing hype. The book is written by Thomas Erl,Ricardo Puttini andZaigham Mahmood and published by Prentice Hall. The meetup is organised and delivered by the LJC Book Club. We are sharing an impartial overview of what promises to be an influential book. We are hoping to find a clear answer to an important question: what, exactly, is the cloud? What is the Cloud? What, exactly, is "The Cloud?" Do you know? Does anybody know? According to Amazon it's a CD rack, a photo album, and it's made of elastic. According to Microsoft it's like a really rubbish bat cave that is full of "real opportunities for IT to deliver more efficiencies." (:| And there are so many cloud services. Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS), Platform as a Service (PaaS), Software as a Service (SaaS), Data as a Service (DaaS) and Pain in the as a Service (PitaaS). :-p What does it all mean? How can any of us keep track of it all? One thing we can say for certain about "The Cloud": it is going to change the way we work. According to Gartner it reached the apex of the "Peak of Inflated Expectations" back in 2009 and by 2012 it wasmaturing but still heavily hyped. Cloud computing sat at the top of the Peak of Inflated Expectations back in 2009. With so many companies looking to expand the hype buzzword to cover their own products how is the developer to climb the Slope of Enlightenment? How can we know what is worth learning and what will be left behind (in the recycling bin for the next fad)? With his book "Cloud Computing: Concepts, Technology and Architecture" Thomas Erl is trying to help. The author explains in his intoduction: Gaining a vendor-neutral understanding of cloud computing from an industry perspective empowers you with the clarity necessary to determine what is factually cloud-related and what is not... With this information you can establish criteria that will allow you to filter out the parts of the cloud computing product and service provider marketplaces to focus on what has the most potential to help you. http://servicetechbooks.com/cloud If the book is as successful as Erl's previous SOA books then it could potentially provide a vital missing link: a ubiquitous language, a shared, unambiguous vocabulary that will let developers, managers and accountants talk intelligently about the the cloud. It will end the frustration of failing cloud projects based on misconceptions. The author again: Cloud computing has much to offer but its roadmap is riddled with pitfalls, ambiguities, and mistruths. The best way to navigate this landscape is to chart each part of the journey by making educated decisions. http://servicetechbooks.com/cloud With this meetup we are hoping to help by sharing the books vendor-neutral perspective through presentation and discussion. The Cloud Computing Meetup With the book's official release on June 11th we are going to take the opportunity to reflect on Cloud computing; how it has progressed and how it affects our work as developers. There is a dizzying array of terms that need to be understood. In interviews you will need to be comfortable with terms like "hybrid cloud", "multitenancy" and "threat agent." If you haven't already encountered technologies like "hypervisors", "resource replication" or "dynamic failure detection" then there is a good chance that you soon will. In this event we will provide an overview of the ideas presented in the book. It's a big book, with 16 chapters and 7 appendices that contain 260 diagrams, 29 models and 20 mechanisms. We will provide a guided tour of the contents so that you can see which parts are relevant to you. If you are new to cloud computing then it will provided an invaluable overview of new technologies that are just beginning to disrupt the mainstream. If you are already familiar with cloud technology you can see the models that are likely to frame your less technical colleague's understanding. We will also take a look at some of the specific technologies that are being used to implement cloud computing. *Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: http://skillsmatter.com/podcast/home/cloud-computing-concepts-technology-and-architecture*
*Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link:http://skillsmatter.com/podcast/home/java-native-interface-with-eclipse-and-android* Java Native Interface with Eclipse and Android -Presented by Jeff Lawson. The Java Native Interface (JNI) enables Java developers to make use of C libraries for high-performance functions such as telephony, sound and graphics. JNI enables developers to re-use their existing C/C++-based software and opens up the opportunity to use the C/C++ libraries developed by the company or organisation they work for. This event provides broad and detailed coverage of JNI across all platforms and specifically for the Android NDK. This is a how-to presentation with fully working code samples and turn-key instructions for implementing all aspects of JNI listed below. The presentation will be delivered using slides and live code demos. The following subjects will be covered: * What is JNI and why use it?* Writing C functions and C++ methods callable from Java* Mapping strings and other data types* Writing callbacks into Java* Exception handling* Memory management* Threading* SWIG* Using standard C libraries* Using open source shared libraries, e.g. OpenJPEG* Adding native code libraries to JAR files* JNI with the Android NDK* Targeting multiple processor architectures* Using native APIs, e.g. OpenSL ES in Android 2.3* Debugging native code in Eclipse All slides and codes samples will be provided to attendees. Who should attend: Developers wishing to gain a good understanding of the Java Native Interface plus the Android NDK. This event assumes that attendees are Java developers with at least a passing acquaintance with C/C++. Attendees are assumed to have no experience of JNI. Bio: Jeff Lawson is a Java / C / C++ / Obj-C developer who works for aninternational telco. He wrote his first JNI-based product, a JNDI serviceprovider, in 2001. He now uses JNI as a crucial and extensive part of hisAndroid telephony development. Agenda: 18:15: Doors Open18:30: Main presentation - presented by Jeff Lawson (90 mins approx.)20:00 approx: Networking and informal discussion at:The Old Ivy House Pub, 166 Goswell Road EC1V 7DT www.oldivyhouse.co.uk Please Note: Nearest tube: BarbicanNearest Coffee Shop: Sun Coffee Shop, 55-63 Goswell Road, London, EC1V 7EN for if you arrive earlyAfter event drinks venue:The Old Ivy House Pub, 166 Goswell Road EC1V 7DT www.oldivyhouse.co.uk *Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link:http://skillsmatter.com/podcast/home/java-native-interface-with-eclipse-and-android* Event Organised by RecWorks Event kindly sponsored by: Cogent Logic is a provider of premium hands-on training courses for software developers.LJC members can get 15% discount on our upcoming one-day cryptography courses simply by quoting "LJC" when registering. Cryptography for Java Developers runs in central London on: - Wednesday 26 June 2013 - Saturday 29 June 2013 Cryptography for C Developers runs in central London on: - Wednesday 10 July 2013 - Saturday 13 July 2013 To register for these courses, please: - Visit www.cogentlogic.com/London or - Call freephone: 08000 438 478
The London Developer Sessions This is our monthly social gathering, which incorporates members of The London Java Community and Graduate Developer Communities. This is an informal social evening most of the evening will be spent having ad-hoc informal discussions in small groups. We are back to The Slug and Lettuce this month: 19/20 Hanover Street, Londonhttp://www.slugandlettuce.co.uk/hanover_street/. We have had some fantastic feedback from those who have attended the event at this venue before and will be holding this month's event in the same great location. The venuehas a nicely sized function room with its own private bar, there are some great offers on beer, there is free wi-fi and it's easy to move around and chat to lots of people. Most importantly it is a friendly and relaxed environment where developers can get together to chat and network. The event will kick off at 6:30 PM and usually goes on until around 11:30 with members coming and going at all times throughout the evening. We usually attract 50 70 members so it is a lively event in which members, both junior and senior, can connect in a relaxed atmosphere and set the development world to rights. Barry or another RecWorks team member will be onsite so if anyone is looking for free recruitment advice it's a great chance to come along for a chat. Developer sessions sponsored byAtlassian, creators ofJIRA,Confluence,Greenhopper, Stash and much, much more. Tools for developers, by developers Organised by RecWorks:
***Please note this is an online monthly prize draw and no actual meeting will take place*** The Web Keeps Spinning It Just Won't Stop Spinning Next year the world wide web will be a quarter of a century old. Since it'sbirth at CERN back in 1989 it hasn't stopped moving, changing, evolving or revolving. From clunky desktops in labs to the phone in your pocket change has been the only constant. This month we are looking at books that can help us get to grips with the web's latest developments. Scala Out Back Scala promises to improve productivity by providing us with a rich, expressive language with strong domain specific support. Frameworks are being built to deliver on that promise. Learning Play! Framework 2 by Andy Petrella The Play framework promises to make it faster and easier to build web applications that scales reliably while supporting both web and mobile clients. Akka Essentials by Munish K. Gupta Akka is a toolkit and runtime for building highly concurrent, distributed, and fault tolerant event-driven applications on the JVM. HTML5 Up Front HTML5 Enterprise Application Development by Nehal Shah, Gabriel Jos Balda Ortz HTML5 has been a trending topic for a long time, but the lack of Flash support on iOS devices has sped up its penetration. New features in HTML5 come at a time when web developers are pushing the limits of what is achievable and HTML5, CSS3, and JavaScript have become an important alternative for building rich user interfaces. HTML5 Canvas Cookbook by Eric Rowell The HTML5 canvas is revolutionizing graphics and visualizations on the Web. Powered by JavaScript, the HTML5 Canvas API enables web developers to create visualizations and animations right in the browser without Flash. Although the HTML5 Canvas is quickly becoming the standard for online graphics and interactivity, many developers fail to exercise all of the features that this powerful technology has to offer. Getting the User Experience Right Selenium Testing Tools Cookbook byUnmesh Gundecha Selenium automates browsers. That's it. What you do with that power is entirely up to you. Primarily it is for automating web applications for testing purposes, but is certainly not limited to just that. Boring web-based administration tasks can (and should!) also be automated as well. Responsive Web Design by Example byThoriq Firdaus Responsive web design is an explosive area of growth in modern web development due to the huge volume of different device sizes and resolutions that are now commercially available. You can now create your very own responsive website quickly and efficiently, allowing you to showcase your content in a format that will work on any device with an Internet browser. To take part in the promotion all you have to do is RSVP to this event on Meetup and complete the questions. Packt Publishing are a unique publishing company specializing in highly focused books on specific technologies and solutions - please visit their site to find out more about them:www.packtpub.com Good luck! Organised by RecWorks ***Please note this is an online monthly prize draw and no actual meeting will take place***
A Tourist's Guide to Clojure for Java Programmers This is the first event in a series of events we are running in collaboration with the London Clojurians on Clojure for Java Programmers. Are you a Java programmer interested in learning about functional languages? Do you want to broaden your programming horizons by being able to grok a LISP? Do you want to work with pain-free concurrency? Well Clojure is the exciting LISP on the JVM that allows you do all three. This talk aims to give you enough knowledge to get you through the initial learning curve and like a tourist phrasebook give you enough knowledge to allow to explore Clojure on your own. We'll talk about the basic structures of the language, how you use it, what you can use from your existing Java knowledge and what the benefits of becoming a Clojurian might be. Topics * What is Clojure and why is it interesting? * Clojure's syntax and basics * How can I work with immutable data? * Clojure and concurrency * Using Java in Clojure * Setting up a basic project in Clojure * Your questions answered via live-coding Agenda: 18:30: Doors Open18:45: Main presentation20:00/20:30 approx: Networking and informal discussion -We will head to 'Hotel Ibis - London, Euston, St Pancras' - 3 Cardington Street, London, NW1 2LW - for networking and further informal discussion.http://www.ibishotel.com/gb/hotel-0921-ibis-london-euston-st-pancras/location.shtml Please Note: This event will be held in the Christopher Ingold XLG1 Lecture Theatre which is in the chemistry department. The Christopher Ingold building is off Gordon Street, WC1H 0AJ. See here for a map:http://www.grad.ucl.ac.uk/maps/index.pht?location_ID=10 Event organised by RecWorks
PLEASE NOTE THIS IS A JBUG EVENT NOT AN LJC EVENT. WE ARE USING THE LJC TO GENERATE PUBLICITY OF THE EVENT. TO GUARANTEE A PLACE YOU MUST REGISTER YOUR DETAILS HERE: http://www.c2b2.co.uk/london_jbug_july_2013 JBUG EVENT: Connecting Applications Everywhere with JBoss A-MQ Presentation As part of the FuseSource acquisition, Red Hat now supports Apache ActiveMQ as the recently released Red Hat JBoss A-MQ product. ActiveMQ is the most widely used message-oriented middleware that uses messaging to connect remote applications written in Java, C/C++, Python, Perl, Ruby, and many other languages. ActiveMQ is standards based and supports messaging protocols such as AMQP 1.0, WebSockets, Stomp, OpenWire, and MQTT. In this session, Rob Davies will discuss the products features and functionality, and demonstrate connectivity from a microprocessor to web sockets using JBoss A-MQ. Speaker Rob Davies is the technical director for Fuse engineering at Red Hat, focusing on next-generation, open source middleware products. Prior to this role, Robert was the CTO of FuseSource and has 20 years of experience architecting solutions and developing products for large-scale, distributed applications for the telecommunications and finance industries. Rob was the co-founder and contributor to Apache ActiveMQ, ServiceMix, and Camel. Agenda18:00 - 18:15 - Coffee, Welcome and Networking18:15 - 19:30 - 'Connecting Applications Everywhere with JBoss A-MQ' by Rob Davies19:30 - 20:00- Lightning Talks & Problem Solving Sessions20:00 - 20:30 - Beer, Pizza and Networking Please here for more details:http://www.meetup.com/JBoss-User-Group/events/123043442/ PLEASE NOTE THIS IS A JBUG EVENT NOT AN LJC EVENT. WE ARE USING THE LJC TO GENERATE PUBLICITY OF THE EVENT. TO GUARANTEE A PLACE YOU MUST REGISTER YOUR DETAILS HERE:http://www.c2b2.co.uk/london_jbug_july_2013
**PLEASE NOTE: It is essential that you confirm your place at this link:http://gdg-java-cloud.eventbrite.co.uk/** GDG London / LJC - Developing on the Google Cloud Platform with Java Join us for an evening of talks about developing on the Google Cloud Platform with Java. We'll start with a talk from Roman Kirillov a Software Engineer at Google, who will be discussing how to use Google Cloud Endpoints to build third party APIs on AppEngine. The second talk will be fromMandy Waite, a Developer Advocate at Google, who will be talking about the pros and cons of running JVM languages such as Groovy and Scala on Google App Engine This meetup is being organized by the GDG London and London Java Community, with food & drink sponsored by Google. Both talks are suitable for both experienced developers and people who have limted experience with the Google Cloud Platform or Java (the skills are transferable to other languages). 6.30pm: Registration & networking (pizza & drinks included) 6:50pm: A quick intro to GDG and LJC 7.00pm: Talk #1 from Roman Kirillov on Google Cloud Endpoints - Building third-party APIs on Google AppEngine Building scalable web APIs using Google AppEngine and writing clients using Google API client libraries.8:00pm: Talk #2 from Mandy Waite on Running JVM languages on Google App Engine The pros and cons of running JVM languages such as Groovy and Scala on Google App Engine8:45pm: Networking / drinks We'll head to a local pub (most likely The Slaugheterd Lamb) if people are still in need of a beer or two at the end. **PLEASE NOTE: It is essential that you confirm your place at this link:http://gdg-java-cloud.eventbrite.co.uk/**
PLEASE NOTE THIS IS A LONDON ANDROID EVENT NOT AN LJC EVENT. WE ARE USING THE LJC TO GENERATE PUBLICITY OF THE EVENT. TO GUARANTEE A PLACE YOU MUST REGISTER YOUR DETAILS HERE:http://www.meetup.com/London-Android-LiveCode/events/125748032/ London Android Event: #1 Livecode : Augmented reality & Corona SDK The first London Android Livecode has been announced. Sponsorored by StartApp At this occasion, three speakers will be present : Monetize my Android App, best practices Tal Futeran Account manager atStartApp What is really the best strategy to pursue to consistently generate revenue in this free eco system? Well review some of the most popular models on Android currently used by apps in the Play Store from banners to icon ads, analyze each one and try to figure out how to best match the your app to the best right business model for you. Augmented reality and image recognition Lukasz Piliszczuk Trainer atSupinfo Lukasz will review the actual android ecosystem related to augmented reality, what are the possibilities offered to developers today and tomorrow. He will create an augmented reality game that will perform image recognition in order to interact with the environment. Develop an Android video game in 30 minutes David Roulin Advocate developer atCorona Labs David will show us in about 30 minutes, the use of the Corona SDK for graphics and 2D animation (sprite sheets, parallaxes, tweening, and shapemasks blendmodes), audio and video, the physics engine, event-driven programming, structured in blocks (storyboard),... The principle of this event is that the speakers are going to develop, but you are also going to help them ! The event is free and food and drinks will be provided as well. See you all there ! PLEASE NOTE THIS IS A LONDON ANDROID EVENT NOT AN LJC EVENT. WE ARE USING THE LJC TO GENERATE PUBLICITY OF THE EVENT. TO GUARANTEE A PLACE YOU MUST REGISTER YOUR DETAILS HERE:http://www.meetup.com/London-Android-LiveCode/events/125748032/
The London Developer Sessions This is our monthly social gathering, which incorporates members of The London Java Community and Graduate Developer Communities. This is an informal social evening most of the evening will be spent having ad-hoc informal discussions in small groups. We are back to The Slug and Lettuce this month: 19/20 Hanover Street, Londonhttp://www.slugandlettuce.co.uk/hanover_street/. We have had some fantastic feedback from those who have attended the event at this venue before and will be holding this month's event in the same great location. The venuehas a nicely sized function room with its own private bar, there are some great offers on beer, there is free wi-fi and it's easy to move around and chat to lots of people. Most importantly it is a friendly and relaxed environment where developers can get together to chat and network. The event will kick off at 6:30 PM and usually goes on until around 11:30 with members coming and going at all times throughout the evening. We usually attract 50 70 members so it is a lively event in which members, both junior and senior, can connect in a relaxed atmosphere and set the development world to rights. Barry or another RecWorks team member will be onsite so if anyone is looking for free recruitment advice it's a great chance to come along for a chat. Organised by RecWorks:
**Please note this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place** 48 HR RAFFLE: JAX London & Big Data Con 2013 Update - Exclusive Ticket Raffle We have been generouslydonated two tickets for the main JAX London conference days - Tues 29th and Wed 30th October - toraffle to two lucky LJC members. The winner will be picked at random after noon on Thursday 18th July, and announced shortly afterwards. To enter simply RSVP to this event and complete the questions. Information from the organiser: Many of you will already know JAX London as the UKs premier Java conference, covering all the latest technology developments in Java, the JVM and beyond. This year weve also dedicated 3 tracks to Big Data in line with your feedback, focusing on databases, processing and approaches. JAX London and the LJC have have worked as comrades over the last 4 years, sharing many mutual aims, especially a commitment to have many of leading names in the Java Ecosystem share their knowledge and expertise. As part of our partnership, all LJC members can get a 25% discount on all ticket options for JAX London. And that's not all, we also have 2 tickets for the main conference days on Tues 29th and Wed 30th October to giveaway. To enter please RSVP to this event and complete the questions. Every year JAX brings in a plethora of talent from around the globe. Guys who are seldom on these shores converge to share technical know-how directly with you. So far, we have 17 international speakers confirmed: Brent Beer (Github) - USANathan Bijnens (Datacrunchers) - NetherlandsGuillaume Laforge (Springsource) - FranceArun Gupta (Oracle) - USAMarcus Largergren (Oracle) - SwedenNeal Ford (Thoughtworks) - USAPavlo Baron (Codecentric AG) - GermanyKen Sipe (Independent) USABjorn Antonsson (Typesafe) - SwedenSergey Balasavich (Altoros) - BelarusDarach Ennis (Push Technology) - IrelandChris Chedgey (Headway Software) - IrelandEric Schabell (JBoss) - NetherlandsOliver Gierke (SpringSource)- GermanyGraham Johnson (IBM) - CanadaTed Neward (Neward & Associates) - USAStefan Zeiger (Typesafe - Switzerland And of course there's a range of homegrown talent representing the LJC speaking at the event: Andy Piper, James Gough, Richard Warburton, John Oliver,Trisha Gee, Simon Maple, Sandro Mancuso and Martijn Verburg Pop over to our website and register to reserve your spot!Early Bird Prices (available until 15/08/13) & Ticket Options: Tutorials / Workshop Day only (Oct 28) 349.00Conference Days only (Oct 29 & 30) 499.00All Access Pass - Tutorials + Conference Days (Oct 28 - 30) 649.00 When you register at any time using discount code JL13LJC you will get an additional 25% off the ticket price! This is exclusive to LJC members! JAX London 2013 and Big Data Con will be held from 28-30 October, 2013 at the Park Plaza, Victoria. If you have any questions regarding registrations, content or anything else please contact shonam@sandsmedia.com or phone 020 7401 4845. *To enter the raffle for two free tickets simply RSVP to this event and complete the questions. Please note the sponsor may well contact you following this raffle* **Please note this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place**
London Java Community - Meet a Project Are you looking to join an existing open source project, but don't know where to start? Are you interested in finding out more about open source software in general? Are you looking to start a personal project but don't know what to base it on? Are you interested in trying out some new technologies and wondering how to use them in a personal project? If the answer is yes, this event could be for you.This is part of the MaP series of events designed to connect open source software projects and potential contributors. It will be in a speed networking style, involving Project Ambassadors speaking to small groups of 3-6 developers. Giving a pitch of an open source or personal project, then answering questions before moving on to another group. The events are intended to answer potential contributors questions around the projects, focussed mainly around starting points. There are a lot of developers in the industry, from students to experienced developers that are interested to get involved in something in addition to their day time position, but aren't really sure where to start. There are also a great deal of interesting projects covering everything from popular open source frameworks to the Adopt a JSR program launched by the LJC. Many of these projects rely on support/enthusiasm from developers and are keen to get more enthusiastic people involved. Not to mention that most candidates that get involved in personal projects seem to escalate their careers, salaries, day rates and passion for the industry. You will get a chance to meet project leads for 3-6 different projects and discuss the differences between them and their experience with open source development and their experiences in general. Please note: This event is being held at University College London. Rooms 112, 113, 114 & 130 Foster Court, Malet Place off Torrington Place, London WC1E 6BT. Please refer to this map: http://www.ucl.ac.uk/find-us/?locationID=13 We will head to 'Hotel Ibis - London, Euston, St Pancras' - 3 Cardington Street, London, NW1 2LW - for networking and further informal discussion after the event: http://www.ibishotel.com/gb/hotel-0921-ibis-london-euston-st-pancras/location.shtml Refreshments kindly being sponsored by Red Hat:Red Hat is the world's leading provider of open source solutions, using a community-powered approach to provide reliable and high-performing cloud, virtualization, storage, Linux, and middleware technologies. Read the company brochure. http://www.redhat.com Organised by RecWorks:
**Please note this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place** 48 HR RAFFLE: JSpringOne 2GX - Exclusive Ticket Raffle (4 in total) We have been generouslydonated four tickets for the JSpringOne 2GX conference in Santa Clara, CA on 9th September through to the 12th. The tickets will be raffled to four lucky LJC members. The winner will be picked at random on Monday 29th July, and announced shortly afterwards. To enter simply RSVP to this event and complete the questions. Information from the organiser: SPRINGONE 2GX 2013: THE SPRING, GROOVY, GRAILS, & CLOUD EVENT OF THE YEAR! Be part of one of the year's premier Java events with some 100 sessions over 4 days in Santa Clara, CA. SpringSource and No Fluff Just Stuff bring you SpringOne 2GX 2013, a one-of-a-kind conference for application developers, solution architects, web operations and IT teams who develop business applications, create multi-device aware web applications, design cloud architectures, and manage high performance infrastructure. The sessions are specifically tailored for developers using the hugely popular open source Spring technologies, Groovy & Grails, and Tomcat. Whether you're building and running mission-critical business applications or designing the next killer cloud application, SpringOne 2GX will keep you up to date with the latest enterprise technology. http://www.springone2gx.com/conference/santa_clara/2013/09/home SpringOne 2GX 2013 will be at: Santa Clara Convention Center, 5001 Great America Pkwy, Santa Clara, CA, 95054 *Travel and accommodation not included in this raffle* *To enter the raffle for four free tickets simply RSVP to this event and complete the questions. Please note the sponsor may well contact you following this raffle* **Please note this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place**
***Please note this is an online monthly prize draw*** ***No actual meeting will take place*** Summer Is Here Its Time To Play The summer is here. The sun is shining. The sky is blue and there isn't a cloud to spoil the view. That's why there is no better time to stay indoors and play with your computer. You work all day with Java, so there isn't any this month. We have Javascript, Lua, Scala and hardware but no Java. Write A Game To Play HTML5 Game Development with ImpactJS by Davy Cielen and Arno Meysman ImpactJS is a JavaScript library specially geared towards building 2-dimensional games. It is intuitive and versatile and allows the game developer to get results in no time while keeping an easy overview when games grow more complex. Games built with ImpactJS can be published on websites and even as an app on both Android and iOS. With "HTML5 Game Development with ImpactJS", building games for the Web and app markets has never been so easy. Using the ImpactJS JavaScript engine, you only need this book and basic knowledge of JavaScript in order to build and publish your own game. Developing Mobile Games with Moai SDK by Francisco Tufr Code mobile games in Lua using Moai. Its a fast, minimalist, open-source Lua mobile framework for pro game developers. Moai is built around Lua, a common programming language for games, and offers a single open-source platform for both the front-end elements seen by consumers and the back-end infrastructure. Developing Mobile Games with Moai SDK will guide you through the creation of two game prototypes in a step-by-step way, giving you the basic tools you need in order to create your own games. Play With Some New Web Technologies Learning Play! Framework 2 by Andy Petrella What better technology is there better to play with than Play! The Learning Play! Framework 2 has been created for web developers that are building web applications. The core idea is to focus on the HTTP features and to enable them through a simplification lens. Building a web application no longer requires a configuration phase, an environment setup, or a long development lifecycle - it's integrated! Learning Play! Framework 2 will enable any web developers to create amazing web applications taking advantage of the coolest features. It's the fastest way to dive into Play!, focusing on the capabilities by using them in a sample application. Although essentially Java based code, a Scala version is presented as well giving an opportunity to see some Scala in action. Socket.IO Real-time Web Application Development by Rohit Rai The expectations of users for interactivity with web applications have changed over the past few years. No more does the user want to press the refresh button to check if new messages have arrived in their inbox; people expect to see updates in their applications in real-time. Mass multiplayer online games have given up the requirement of plugins and are built entirely in JavaScript. Socket.io enables you to build these highly interactive applications that work cross-browser. "Socket.io Real-time Web Application Development" is a guide to building, deploying, and scaling highly interactive real-time web applications using socket.io. This book will guide you through the building of a chat system using Node.js and socket.io, helping you get familiar with various features of the framework. Going further it will empower you to deploy and scale your applications in production. Play With Some Raspberry PI Raspberry Pi Networking Cookbook by Rick Golden The Raspberry Pi is more than just a platform for teaching students how to program computers! The recipes in this book show you how this inexpensive computer can be used out of the box for a number of practical solutions that utilise existing networks and connectivity. The Raspberry Pi Networking Cookbook is an essential reference full of practical solutions for use both at home and in the office. Beginning with step-by-step instructions for installation and configuration, this book can either be read from cover to cover or treated as an essential reference companion to your Raspberry Pi. Raspberry Pi Media Center by Sam Nazarko Low-cost and high-performing, with a massively diverse range of uses and applications, the Raspberry Pi is set to revolutionise the way we think about computing and programming. Using it as a Media Centre allows everyone to have a low-cost device that is always on, attached to their TV. Imagine controlling your TV with your smartphone, dynamically streaming content that you have on various devices across your home, as and when you want. Raspberry Pi Media Centre will show you how to configure the complete experience using readily available and accessible tools, so that you too will soon be enjoying your media from the comfort of your own sofa. To take part in the promotion all you have to do is RSVP to this event on Meetup and complete the questions. Packt Publishing are a unique publishing company specializing in highly focused books on specific technologies and solutions - please visit their site to find out more about them:www.packtpub.com Good luck! Organised by RecWorks ***Please note this is an online monthly prize draw*** ***No actual meeting will take place***
So You Want To Become A Java Contractor? We are often asked by developers about contracting; what the market is like, when to take the first steps and how it differs from permanent opportunities. Contracting can be a great career option but can be very different from working as a permanent employee.We have set up the RecWorks Contractor Network (RCN), the idea being people can network and share advice on their experiences through a common mailing list. It also means we can get a really good cross section on what is happening in the contract market. We have invited members of the RCN to share their experience on working as a contractor. This event is suitable for: - Experienced developers considering one day taking a step into contracting - Students that are interested to find out more about the difference between permanent and contractors - Experienced contractors keen to share opinions, tips and advice on working as a contractor The event will run with a panel in a 'fishbowl' style.If you're unfamiliar with fishbowl events, four to five chairs will be arranged in an inner circle (or a panel at the front of the room), this is the fishbowl. The remaining chairs will be arranged in concentric circles outside the fishbowl. A few participants will be selected to fill the fishbowl, while the rest of the group sit on the chairs outside the fishbowl. One chair will be left empty, any member of the audience can, at any time, occupy the empty chair and join the fishbowl. When this happens, an existing member of the fishbowl must voluntarily leave the fishbowl and free a chair. The discussion continues with participants frequently entering and leaving the fishbowl. The audience outside the fishbowl listen in on the discussion. Please Note: To find the location at UCL - Chadwick G08, Chadwick Building, UCL, Gower Street, London, WC1E 6BT - You will need to enter via the front quad, off Gower Street.Please refer to this map for further information - http://www.ucl.ac.uk/maps?locationID=8 We will head to 'Hotel Ibis - London, Euston, St Pancras' - 3 Cardington Street, London, NW1 2LW - for networking and further informal discussion after the event:http://www.ibishotel.com/gb/hotel-0921-ibis-london-euston-st-pancras/location.shtml Event organised by RecWorks
*Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: http://skillsmatter.com/event-details/home/ljc-meet-up<strong style="color : #808080">* Are you better than a Coin Toss? Presented by Richard Warburton and John Oliver (1 hour presentation) So youre a big data and distributed systems expert, youve collected 500 billion data points, thrown it into sci-lib-of-the-week, youre using Hadoop, backing onto those cool AWS GPU instances, let it grind away for days and its spit out the answer to life the universe and everything. But is it really better than a coin toss? How do you validate whether your data analysis algorithm works? Are you learning a solution to your problems or just the data you already have? What problems can you encounter when analysing your data? How do you solve them, and what can you do easily under the time pressures of a business environment? Were here to put the Science back into Data Science. Who should attend: Any developer might be interested, but especially those building big data analytics solutions. Bios: Richard Warburton - @RichardWarburto Richard is an empirical technologist and solver of deep-dive technical problems. Recently he has been working on data analytics for high performance computing at jClarity and is writing a book on Java 8 Lambdas for OReilly. He is a leader in the London Java Community, sits on their JCP Committee and organises the Adopt-a-JSR programs for Lambdas and Date and Time in Java 8. Richard is also a known conference speaker, having talked at JavaOne, DevoxxUK and JAX London. Previously he worked on static analysis problems, verifying part of a compiler and developing automated bug detection technology. He obtained a PhD in Computer Science from The University of Warwick where his research focussed on compiler theory. John Oliver -@johno_oliver John has performed research and development in many languages for 15 years, on various platforms from micro controllers, robots, simulations, desktop applications and web services. Currently he is working at jClarity, applying the tools of machine learning to analyse and diagnose performance problems.John holds a PhD in Engineering from Warwick University working on algorithms for coordinating mobile robotic teams. During his study he performed extensive work on both physical and simulated robotic platforms, competing in a number of national and international robotics competitions. Agenda: 18:15: Doors Open18:30: A series of lightning talks from members of The London Java Community - subjects to be announced (see comments in area below).18:45: Main presentation - presented by Richard Warburton and John Oliver (60 mins approx.) Please Note: Nearest tube: BarbicanNearest Coffee Shop: Sun Coffee Shop, 55-63 Goswell Road, London, EC1V 7EN for if you arrive early *Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: http://skillsmatter.com/event-details/home/ljc-meet-up* Event Organised by RecWorks
PLEASE NOTE THIS IS A GOOGLE DEVELOPER GROUP EVENT NOT AN LJC EVENT. WE ARE USING THE LJC TO GENERATE PUBLICITY OF THE EVENT. TO GUARANTEE A PLACE YOU MUST REGISTER YOUR DETAILS HERE:http://www.eventbrite.co.uk/event/7707763127/londonjava GDG London - Android for game developers with Google Come along to hear the latest on Android for gaming developers from Google's Developer relations team. Android 4.3 Update Want a bit more detail behind the release notes? We'll talk in some detail about the 4.3 update and how you can start taking advantage of the new API's. Play Games An introduction to all of the Play games services for Android. Add sign-in, leader boards, achievements, and cloud save to your app. Level up your game and get the badges in the Play Store. Appear in the Play Games destination. Google+ Sign-in Learn more about interactive posts and how Google+ can make your app awesome. We'll have wine, beer and pizza and look forward to seeing you there. For more information:http://www.eventbrite.co.uk/event/7707763127/londonjava PLEASE NOTE THIS IS A GOOGLE DEVELOPER GROUP EVENT NOT AN LJC EVENT. WE ARE USING THE LJC TO GENERATE PUBLICITY OF THE EVENT. TO GUARANTEE A PLACE YOU MUST REGISTER YOUR DETAILS HERE:http://www.eventbrite.co.uk/event/7707763127/londonjava
PackedObjects Hackday At IBM we're pretty excited about a prototype capability we've added to our J9 JVM called PackedObjects. You can read more about from some of the links at the end. In a nutshell it designed to allow better control over the layout and form of fields within a Object. Why is this exciting? well there are bunch of reasons but I'll give you just one that may appeal: better, faster, easier inter-op with native code. Would you like to be able to really share data with native applications? No copying, no special, archane APIs. Just Java classes on one side, C style structures on the other and a lot less JNI. We think this enhancement to Java is pretty cool of course but we'd like to get your views Even if you don't directly work with JNI the platform level benefits are potentially enormous. Faster interoperability with any native code means faster networking performance, faster I/O and faster graphics rendering. Ever tried to write a 3D game in Java and been bottlenecked by OpenGL interoperability? PackedObjects can eliminate the performance pain point. Whenever a new programming challenge appears there is almost always a call to add tailored support into the Java language. Almost always that's a bad idea. Language changes are forever and as such need careful thought and wide debate. Unfortunately discussions about language enhancements frequently end up focusing on syntax over substance. How do you focus the debate on the underlying substance? How do you identify the fundamental concepts that benefit enough Java users that a language change is justified? How about a hands-on, warts-and-all-prototype hackday? We'll cover the challenges that inspired the PackedObject design and examine some of the related alternatives proposed by the community - such as ValueTypes , C# style structs etc. We'll help you hack with our current prototype implementation and you'll help us and the OpenJDK community progress towards a common solution. If you're interested in the process of evolving programming language design, want to see how to make your native interop faster or just want to understand more about PackedObjects this day is for you. If you want to get your hands on the prototype right now you can - its shipped with the IBM Java 8 beta. (Linux IA-32 only unless you have a mainframe at home) http://www.ibm.com/developerworks/java/jdk/beta/ More links http://www.slideshare.net/mmitran/ibm-java-packed-objects-mmit-20121120http://duimovich.blogspot.co.uk/2012/11/packed-objects-in-java.html
The London Developer Sessions This is our monthly social gathering, which incorporates members of The London Java Community and Graduate Developer Communities. This is an informal social evening most of the evening will be spent having ad-hoc informal discussions in small groups. We are back to The Slug and Lettuce this month: 19/20 Hanover Street, Londonhttp://www.slugandlettuce.co.uk/hanover_street/. We have had some fantastic feedback from those who have attended the event at this venue before and will be holding this month's event in the same great location. The venuehas a nicely sized function room with its own private bar, there are some great offers on beer, there is free wi-fi and it's easy to move around and chat to lots of people. Most importantly it is a friendly and relaxed environment where developers can get together to chat and network. The event will kick off at 6:30 PM and usually goes on until around 11:30 with members coming and going at all times throughout the evening. We usually attract 50 70 members so it is a lively event in which members, both junior and senior, can connect in a relaxed atmosphere and set the development world to rights. Barry or another RecWorks team member will be onsite so if anyone is looking for free recruitment advice it's a great chance to come along for a chat. Organised by RecWorks:
*Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: http://skillsmatter.com/event-details/home/ljc-meetup-1822<strong style="color : #808080">* Lambdas: Myths and Mistakes - Presented by Richard Warburton (1 hour presentation) tl;dr - How will the everyday developer cope with Java 8s Language changes? Java 8 will ship with a powerful new abstraction - Lambda Expressions (aka Closures) and a completely retooled set of Collections libraries. In addition interfaces have changed through the addition of default and static methods. The ongoing debate as to whether Java should include such language changes has resulted in many vocal opinions being espoused. Sadly few of these opinions have been backed up by practical experimentation and experience. * Are these opinions just myths?* What mistakes does a developer make?* Can a blue collar Java Developer cope with functional programming?* Can we avoid these mistakes in future? In London weve been running a series of hackdays trying out Lambda Expressions as part of the Adopt-a-JSR program and have been recording and analysing the results. This gives us unprecedented insight into what will happen in future. Who should attend: All types of developers - its a pretty high level talk. Bios: Richard Warburton - @RichardWarburto Richard is an empirical technologist and solver of deep-dive technical problems. Recently he has been working on data analytics for high performance computing at jClarity and is writing a book on Java 8 Lambdas for OReilly. He is a leader in the London Java Community, sits on their JCP Committee and organises the Adopt-a-JSR programs for Lambdas and Date and Time in Java 8. Richard is also a known conference speaker, having talked at JavaOne, DevoxxUK and JAX London. Previously he worked on static analysis problems, verifying part of a compiler and developing automated bug detection technology. He obtained a PhD in Computer Science from The University of Warwick where his research focussed on compiler theory. Agenda: 18:15: Doors Open18:30/19:00: Main presentation - presented by Richard Warburton (60 mins approx.) Please Note: Nearest tube: BarbicanNearest Coffee Shop: Sun Coffee Shop, 55-63 Goswell Road, London, EC1V 7EN for if you arrive early *Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: http://skillsmatter.com/event-details/home/ljc-meetup-1822* Event Organised by RecWorks
*Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link:http://skillsmatter.com/event-details/home/building-data-applications-with-hadoop-presented-by-tom-white Building Data Applications with Hadoop - Presented by Tom White Nowadays the Hadoop ecosystem has a bewildering number of components, which makes it hard to get started for users who are new to the platform. In this talk I will describe the architecture of a typical data application built on Hadoop (an event ingest and processing pipeline), and then show how it can be built using familiar Java constructs using theCloudera Development Kit (CDK) - an open source project with the goal of simplifying Hadoop application development. This talk will be presented using PowerPoint. Who should attend Developers working with Enterprise Java. Hadoop experience is *not* necessary. Bio Tom White is one of the foremost experts on Hadoop. He has been an Apache Hadoop committer since February 2007, and is a Member of the Apache Software Foundation. Tom is a software engineer at Cloudera, where he has worked, since its foundation, on the core distributions from Apache and Cloudera. Previously he was an independent Hadoop consultant, working with companies to set up, use, and extend Hadoop. He has written numerous articles for OReilly, java.net and IBMs developerWorks, and has spoken at many conferences, including ApacheCon and OSCON. Tom has a B.A. in mathematics from the University of Cambridge and an M.A. in philosophy of science from the University of Leeds, UK. He currently lives in Wales with his family. Agenda 18:15: Doors Open18:30/45: Main presentation - presented by Tom White (40 mins approx. plus time for questions) Please Note: Nearest tube: BarbicanNearest Coffee Shop: Sun Coffee Shop, 55-63 Goswell Road, London, EC1V 7EN for if you arrive early *Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link:http://skillsmatter.com/event-details/home/building-data-applications-with-hadoop-presented-by-tom-white Organised by RecWorks -http://recworks.co.uk/
***Please note this is an online monthly prize draw*** ***No actual meeting will take place*** Two's Complement Just getting code to work on your machine isn't enough. There are many other vital skills that complement coding. http://codinghorror.typepad.com/.a/6a0120a85dcdae970b0128776ff992970c-pi This month we are looking at books that address these important complementary. Tools and skills for operations, project management and web design. Dev Ops Gone are the days when developers threw their code over the wall for the operations teams to sort out. Continuous integration into virtualised environments requires close collabortaion and sophisticated tooling. Implementing VMware Horizon View 5.2 by Jason Ventresco VMware Horizon View helps you simplify desktop and application management while increasing security and control. This book will introduce you to all of the components of the VMware Horizon View suite, walk you through their deployment, and show how they are used. We will also discuss how to assess your virtual desktop resource requirements, and build an optimized virtual desktop. "Implementing VMware Horizon View 5.2" will provide you the information needed to deploy and administer your own end-user computing infrastructure. This includes not only the View components themselves, but key topics such as assessing virtual desktop resource needs, and how to optimize your virtual desktop master image. You will learn how to design and deploy a performant, flexible and powerful desktop virtualization solution using VMware Horizon View. You will implement important components and features, such as VMware View Connection Server, VMware View Composer, VMware View Transfer Server, and VMware View Security Server. Puppet 3 Beginners Guide by John Arundel Everyone's talking about Puppet, the open-source DevOps technology that lets you automate your server setups and manage websites, databases, and desktops. Puppet can build new servers in seconds, keep your systems constantly up to date, and automate daily maintenance tasks. "Puppet 3 Beginner's Guide" gets you up and running with Puppet straight away, with complete real world examples. Each chapter builds your skills, adding new Puppet features, always with a practical focus. You'll learn everything you need to manage your whole infrastructure with Puppet. "Puppet 3 Beginners Guide" takes you from complete beginner to confident Puppet user, through a series of clear, simple examples, with full explanations at every stage. Through a series of worked examples introducing Puppet to a fictional web company, you'll learn how to manage every aspect of your server setup. Switching to Puppet needn't be a big, long-term project; this book will show you how to start by bringing one small part of your systems under Puppet control and, little by little, building to the point where Puppet is managing your whole infrastructure. Jira Projects are no longer managed in spreadsheets and GANT charts in locked rooms. The whole team takes responsibility for ensuring that everything gets done, and that needs the support of a good tool like Jira. JIRA 5.2 Essentials by Patrick Li Atlassians JIRA provides issue tracking and project tracking for software development teams to aid speed of development and quality of code. This book will show you how to develop software more efficiently by planning, designing, and customizing your own JIRA implementation. JIRA is a popular issue tracking product designed for better bug tracking, issue tracking, and project management. JIRA 5.2 Essentials provides a comprehensive guide covering everything you will need to plan, set up, design, customize, and manage your software development projects efficiently and to a professional standard. In this practical book you will learn how to design and implement JIRA for project and issue tracking. You will jump into the installation and design of JIRA before going through the required techniques to effectively manage issues that threaten your software development project. JIRA 5.x Development Cookbook by Jobin Kuruvilla JIRA provides issue tracking and project tracking for software development teams to improve code quality and the speed of development. "JIRA 5.x Development Cookbook" is a one stop resource to master extensions and customizations in JIRA. You will learn how to create your own JIRA plugins, customize the look and feel of your JIRA UI, work with workflows, issues, custom fields, and much more. "JIRA 5.x Development Cookbook" starts with recipes on simplifying the plugin development process followed by a complete chapter dedicated to the plugin framework to master plugins in JIRA. Then we will move on to writing custom field plugins to create new field types or custom searchers. We then learn how to program and customize workflows to transform JIRA into a user friendly system. Responsive Web Design First there were desktops, then mobiles, then tablets, then mini tablets, then phablets... Thankfully, responsible web design allows us to craft user interfaces that provide an optimal viewing experience across the every growing range of devices. HTML5 and CSS3 Responsive Web Design Cookbook by Benjamin LaGrone The Internet is going mobile. Desktop computer sales keep falling as the mobile device marketplace burgeons. Web development methods are rapidly changing to adapt to this new trend. HTML5 and CSS3 Responsive Web Design Cookbook, for all of todays wireless Internet devices, gives developers a new toolbox for staying connected with this on-the-run demographic. HTML5 and CSS3 Responsive Web Design Cookbook is the programmers resource for generating websites that effortlessly interface with modern mobile devices. Using its clear instructions you can create responsive applications that make snappy connections for mobile browsers and give your website the latest design and development advantages for reaching mobile devices. HTML5 and CSS3 Responsive Web Design Cookbook is full of how-to recipes for site enhancements and optimizing your sites for the latest devices and the mobile Web. Responsive Web Design by Example by Thoriq Firdaus By following the detailed step-by-step instructions in this structured reference guide, you will learn how you can build engaging responsive websites. With coverage of Bootstrap, Skeleton, and Zurb Foundation you'll learn about three of the most powerful responsive frameworks available today. Leading you through by practical example, you'll find that this essential reference develops your understanding by actually helping you create beautiful websites step by step in front of your very eyes. After going over the basics, you'll be able to choose between creating your own responsive portfolio page with Skeleton, building a stunning product page with Bootstrap, or setting up your own professional business website with Zurb Foundation. Ultimately you'll learn how to decide which framework is right for you, and how you can deploy and customize it to your exact specifications! To take part in the promotion all you have to do is RSVP to this event on Meetup and complete the questions. Packt Publishing are a unique publishing company specializing in highly focused books on specific technologies and solutions - please visit their site to find out more about them:www.packtpub.com Good luck! Organised by RecWorks ***Please note this is an online monthly prize draw*** ***No actual meeting will take place***
**Please note this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place** 48 HR RAFFLE: Skills Matter 2013 - The Spring eXchange - Two Tickets We have been generouslydonated two tickets for The Spring Exchange 2013 on 14th/15th November. The tickets will be raffled to two lucky LJC members. The winner will be picked at random on Thursday 5th September, and announced shortly afterwards. To enter simply RSVP to this event and complete the questions. Information from the organiser: The Spring eXchange is returning to Skills Matter London and is poised to be bigger and better than ever! A two day conference with exciting talks from leading technology experts including Juergen Hoeller (the Spring framework co-founder), Rob Harrop (the co-founder of SpringSource), Russ Miles (The Principal Consultant at Simplicity Itself) and many more. This is the perfect day to learn new skills and meet like minded developers to explore the most popular Java framework around. With innovations coming thick and fast, including the release of the Spring framework 4.0 this is going to be the Spring community event not to be missed! http://skillsmatter.com/event/java-jee/spring-exchange-1724/mh-8174 The Spring eXchange will be taking place at: The Skills Matter eXchange 116-120 Goswell Road, London, EC1V 7DP United Kingdom *To enter the raffle for one of two free tickets simply RSVP to this event and complete the questions. Please note the sponsor may well contact you following this raffle* **Please note this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place**
**Please note this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place** 48 HR RAFFLE: 5 free ebooks - "Job Tips For GEEKS: The Job Search" Dave Fecak is a friend of the LJC. He is the founder of the Philadelphia Java User Group and like our founder, is a recruiter with good intentions. He keeps a blog called Jobtipsforgeeks.co.uk and has recently released a book with his advice on getting a job. As part of this we are running a promotion for the LJC in which you can win one of 5 free ebooks. The winners will be picked at random on Tuesday 10th September, and announced shortly afterwards. To enter simply RSVP to this event and complete the questions. "Job Tips For GEEKS: The Job Search" is a step-by-step guide to a job search written specifically for software engineers and technical professionals. The book is organised chronologically and begins with steps to take before you start your search, and progresses through the various stages all the way through acceptance of an offer and transitioning into the new role. It is written by a recruiter and also provides extensive insight into working with recruiters and how to avoid some of the issues that recruiters can cause. Topics covered include managing your online presence, writing effective resumes and introduction/cover letters, evaluating five job search methods, phone and personal interview tips, keeping job search metrics, negotiating, balancing multiple job offers, acceptance and resignation, etc. This is not a book of technical questions that you may be asked in interviews, but rather a complete guide to the job search process." For more information please visit:http://jobtipsforgeeksbook.com *To enter the raffle simply RSVP to this event and complete the questions. Please note the sponsor may well contact you following this raffle* **Please note this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place**
The London Developer Sessions This is our monthly social gathering, which incorporates members of The London Java Community and Graduate Developer Communities. This is an informal social evening most of the evening will be spent having ad-hoc informal discussions in small groups. We are back to The Slug and Lettuce this month: 19/20 Hanover Street, Londonhttp://www.slugandlettuce.co.uk/hanover_street/. We have had some fantastic feedback from those who have attended the event at this venue before and will be holding this month's event in the same great location. The venuehas a nicely sized function room with its own private bar, there are some great offers on beer, there is free wi-fi and it's easy to move around and chat to lots of people. Most importantly it is a friendly and relaxed environment where developers can get together to chat and network. The event will kick off at 6:30 PM and usually goes on until around 11:30 with members coming and going at all times throughout the evening. We usually attract 50 70 members so it is a lively event in which members, both junior and senior, can connect in a relaxed atmosphere and set the development world to rights. Barry or another RecWorks team member will be onsite so if anyone is looking for free recruitment advice it's a great chance to come along for a chat. Organised by RecWorks:
PLEASE NOTE THIS IS A GLASSFISH USER GROUP EVENT NOT AN LJC EVENT. WE ARE USING THE LJC TO GENERATE PUBLICITY OF THE EVENT. TO GUARANTEE A PLACE YOU MUST REGISTER YOUR DETAILS HERE:http://www.c2b2.co.uk/london-glassfish-user-group-september-2013 GlassFish User Group: New JMS features in GlassFish 4.0 GlassFish 4.0 is the application server to support the new Java EE 7 standard. One of the most significant components of Java EE 7 is JMS 2.0, which is the first revision to the JMS (Java Message Service) API for over a decade and which introduces a new and much simpler API. This talk will review the new features of JMS 2.0 and other recent messaging-related changes in GlassFish 4.0. Speaker Nigel Deakin is a Principal Member of Technical Staff at Oracle. In addition to being a developer on GlassFish Message Queue he was specification lead for JMS 2.0 and the main author of the JMS 2.0 specification. For more information please see this link:http://www.meetup.com/GlassFish-User-Group/events/130184872/ PLEASE NOTE THIS IS A GLASSFISH USER GROUP EVENT NOT AN LJC EVENT. WE ARE USING THE LJC TO GENERATE PUBLICITY OF THE EVENT. TO GUARANTEE A PLACE YOU MUST REGISTER YOUR DETAILS HERE:http://www.c2b2.co.uk/london-glassfish-user-group-september-2013
LJC: 'ClojureFest with LJC and London Clojurians' An evening of short talks from London-based Clojure experts to help you get started with Clojure, Concurrency, Java inter-operability. A dev clinic will be held afterwards with some experience Clojure hackers to help you install a working development environment on your laptop. Clojure by Example Demonstrating the elegance of the Clojure language by looking at example code and demos: - core.async is a library for async programming & communication. - overtone is an amazing environment for creating music and sounds. - core.logic is a logic programming library offering a Prolog-like relational programming, constraint logic programming, and nominal logic programming for Clojure. Nuts and Bolts - Clojure and Java playing nicely together by Jen Smith, Thoughtworks (25 mins) Showing how easy it is to use Java libraries from within Clojure and vice versa. Covering some of the design patters useful for Java & Clojure interoperability. Concurrency in Clojure -Malcolm Sparks, JUXT (20 mins) What makes Clojure so good for multi-threaded programming and why Nuts and Bolts - Getting started - John Stevenson, Salesforce& Heroku (30 mins) Now you have seen Clojure in action we will show you how to set up a development environment and other useful tooling to help you build software with Clojure. We will look at Leiningen as a humane build tool (no more XML), Emacs if you want more of a Lisp like experience, LightTable if you want a ClojureScript experience, Eclipse & Netbeans if you want to stick with the Java tools you are used too. If there is time we will also show how to deploy Clojure to the Cloud with Heroku. Please Note: This event will be held in the Christopher Ingold XLG2 Lecture Theatre. The Christopher Ingold building is off Gordon Street, WC1H 0AJ Please look at this map for specific location -http://www.ucl.ac.uk/maps?locationID=98 We will head to 'Hotel Ibis - London, Euston, St Pancras' - 3 Cardington Street, London, NW1 2LW - for networking and further informal discussion after the event -http://www.ibishotel.com/gb/hotel-0921-ibis-london-euston-st-pancras/location.shtml Event organised by RecWorks - http://recworks.co.uk/
*Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: http://skillsmatter.com/event-details/home/introduction-to-cassandra-and-the-datastax-cql-java-driver-for-java-developers Introduction to Cassandra and the DataStax CQL Java driver for Java Developers Presented by Johnny Miller This talk will will provide a high level overview of Cassandra intended to give developers an understanding of what it does and how it works. The main part of the talk will introduce developers to the tools and techniques for building Java applications using Cassandra. This will include the Cassandra Query Language (CQL) version 3 and the DataStax Java driver. An example application will also be developed and demonstrated. The goal of the talk is to show Java developers how to interact with Cassandra and give them an appreciation of how Cassandra works. The presentation will be given via a powerpoint presentation with some live coding. The subjects covered will include: - High-level overview of Cassandra - CQL3 - DataStax CQL Java driver Who should attend Java developers who want to start building applications using Cassandra or start using the new Java driver would benefit from this event. The talk will aim to give developers a high level understanding of Cassandra and introduce them to CQL3 and the new DataStax Java Driver for Cassandra. Bio Johnny is an experienced developer and architect who has been working with Cassandra for several years. He is currently a Solutions Architect at DataStax where he helps companies deliver systems using Cassandra. Previously, he was an independent consultant and worked with various clients including Sky - where he developed several systems using Cassandra. He is from Ireland and lives in London with his wife and two labradors. Agenda 18:15: Doors Open18:30: Main presentation - presented by Johnny Miller (90 mins approx)20:00/20:30: Networking and further informal discussion after the event at The Old Ivy House Pub - address below.. Please Note: Nearest tube: BarbicanNearest Coffee Shop: Sun Coffee Shop, 55-63 Goswell Road, London, EC1V 7EN for if you arrive earlyAfter event drinks venue:The Old Ivy House Pub, 166 Goswell Road EC1V 7DTwww.oldivyhouse.co.uk *Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link:http://skillsmatter.com/event-details/home/introduction-to-cassandra-and-the-datastax-cql-java-driver-for-java-developers Refreshments after the event are kindly being sponsored by Datastax: DataStaxpowers the online applications that transform business for more than 300 customers, including startups and 20 of the Fortune 100. DataStax delivers a massively scalable, flexible and continuously available big data platform built on Apache Cassandra. DataStax integrates enterprise-ready Cassandra,Apache Hadoop for analytics and Apache Solr for search across multi-datacenters and in the cloud. Companies such as Adobe, Healthcare Anytime, eBay and Netflix rely on DataStax to transform their businesses. Based in San Mateo, Calif., DataStax is backed by industry-leading investors: Lightspeed Venture Partners, Crosslink Capital, Meritech Capital Partners, Scale Venture Partners, DFJ Growth and Next World Capital. For more information, visitwww.datastax.com Event organised by RecWorks - http://recworks.co.uk/
PLEASE NOTE THIS IS A JBUG EVENT NOT AN LJC EVENT. WE ARE USING THE LJC TO GENERATE PUBLICITY OF THE EVENT. TO GUARANTEE A PLACE YOU MUST REGISTER YOUR DETAILS HERE: http://www.c2b2.co.uk/london_jbug_september_2013 JBUG EVENT: Compensating Transactions: When ACID is too much Presentation ACID transactions are a useful tool for application developers and can provide very strong guarantees, even in the presence of failures. However, ACID transactions are not always appropriate for every situation. ACID transactions are achieved by holding locks on resources and require the ability to rollback changes. In some situations, the blocking nature of the protocol can be too limiting to performance, especially if the transaction is distributed. Also, some actions cant simply be rolled back; for example, sending an email. A common strategy for applications that cant use ACID, is to throw out transactions altogether. However, with this approach you are missing out on many of the benefits that transactions can provide. There are alternative transaction models that relax some of the ACID properties, while still retaining many of the strong guarantees essential for building robust enterprise applications. These should be considered before deciding not to use transactions at all. In this talk, Ill present one such alternative to ACID transactions: compensation-based transactions. Ill provide an overview of ACID and its limitations and describe some use-cases where ACID is not appropriate. Ill then present our new API for compensation-based transactions and demonstrate how it can be used to address these problems. Finally, Ill present our future plans to improve and expand our support for compensation-based transactions. To read the 'Compensating Transactions: When ACID is too much' blog series please visithttp://bit.ly/142keMN Speaker Dr Paul Robinson is a Senior Software Engineer at JBoss by Red Hat where he currently leads the Web Service Transactions project. Paul has worked in the field of transactions and Java middleware for over 10 years. His experience began at Hewlett Packard where he was a member of the Transactions Team. Here he contributed to the first Web service transactions implementation. Previously, Paul headed up the consultancy arm of Arjuna Technologies, helping high-profile customers deploy JBoss Transactions, JBossWS and also Arjuna's Cloud Computing product. Paul received a PhD in middleware and non-repudiation from the University of Newcastle upon Tyne, where he now holds the role of Visiting Research Fellow. In this role he teaches Transactions and Java EE to Advanced-Masters students. Please here for more details:http://www.meetup.com/JBoss-User-Group/events/134890212/ PLEASE NOTE THIS IS A JBUG EVENT NOT AN LJC EVENT. WE ARE USING THE LJC TO GENERATE PUBLICITY OF THE EVENT. TO GUARANTEE A PLACE YOU MUST REGISTER YOUR DETAILS HERE: http://www.c2b2.co.uk/london_jbug_september_2013
**Please note this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place** 48 HR RAFFLE: Two tickets for JAX London We have been generouslydonated two tickets for the main JAX London conference days - Tues 29th and Wed 30th October - toraffle to two lucky LJC members. The winner will be picked at random early next week, and announced shortly afterwards. To enter simply RSVP to this event and complete the questions. Information from the organiser: Want to refresh your Java know-how ? We've got tickets to give away! Got new tools and tech to learn but not sure where to start? We're delighted to announce we have 2 tickets for the main conference days at JAX London (29th & 30th October) to give away! To enter please RSVP to this event and complete the questions. This year is shaping up to be the best yet! As well as the usual outstanding mix of Java and JVM ecosystem topics, Big Data Con returns with 2 dedicated tracks. Meet with speakers and experts from the Java & Big Data ecosystems Keynote presentations from Dwight Merriman, James Governor & Jamie Allen 60 + sessions & keynotes to choose from Take the chance to discuss your own projects Evaluate current & future challenges Network with friends and meet new people Enjoy Community Night - code lab, hacks, social events and a coming together of user groups As well as our 2 main conference days, Monday 28th October hosts a pre-conference workshop and tutorial day, allowing developers to get hands-on in half-day and full-day workshops overseen by experts. Visit our workshops page for information. If you are not one of the lucky winners you can still register for discounted tickets using the LJC promotion code JL13LJC - giving you 25% off tickets. JAX London 2013 and Big Data Con is be held from 28-30 October, 2013 at the Park Plaza, Victoria. If you have any questions regarding registrations, content or anything else please contact shonam@sandsmedia.com or phone 020 7401 4845. *To enter the raffle for two free tickets simply RSVP to this event and complete the questions. Please note the sponsor may well contact you following this raffle* **Please note this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place**
How NOT to Measure Latency with Gil Tene Time is money. Understanding application responsiveness and latency is critical not only for delivering good application behavior but also for maintaining profitability and containing risk. But good characterization of bad data is useless. When measurements of response time present false or misleading latency information, even the best analysis can lead to wrong operational decisions and poor application experience. This presentation discusses common pitfalls encountered in measuring and characterizing latency. It demonstrates and discusses some false assumptions and measurement techniques that lead to dramatically incorrect reporting and covers ways to do a sanity check and correct such situations. Bio: Gil Tene is CTO and co-founder of Azul Systems. He has been involved with virtual machine technologies for the past 20 years. Gil pioneered Azul's Continuously Concurrent Compacting Collector (C4), and various managed runtime and systems stack technologies that combine to deliver the industry's most scalable and robust Java platforms. Gil is a frequent speaker at technology conferences worldwide, and an official JavaOne Rock Star. He was named JCP member if the year in 2013, and one of the Top 50 Agenda Setters in the technology industry by Silicon.com in 2006. Prior to co-founding Azul, Gil held key technology positions at Nortel Networks, Shasta Networks and at Check Point Software Technologies, where he designed ground breaking traffic management solutions. He architected OSs at Stratus Computer, HA solutions at Qualix/Legato, and served as an officer in the Israeli Navy Computer R&D unit. Gil holds a BSEE from The Technion Israel Institute of Technology, and has been awarded 33 patents in computer-related technologies. Please note: This event will take place in room number: S-1.06 which is in 1st basement in the Strand Building, Strand Campus. Here is a map to the Strand Building/Campus: http://www.kcl.ac.uk/campuslife/campuses/strand/Strand.aspxOn the bottom map the Stand building is marked as in green. Here is a map of Basement 1 where you will find the room: http://www.kcl.ac.uk/campuslife/campuses/download/SBbasement1forweb.pdf We will head to the Lyceum Tavern, 354 StrandLondon, Greater London WC2R 0HS - for networking and further informal discussion after the event.
The London Developer Sessions This is our monthly social gathering, which incorporates members of The London Java Community and Graduate Developer Communities. This is an informal social evening most of the evening will be spent having ad-hoc informal discussions in small groups. We are back to The Slug and Lettuce this month: 19/20 Hanover Street, Londonhttp://www.slugandlettuce.co.uk/hanover_street/. We have had some fantastic feedback from those who have attended the event at this venue before and will be holding this month's event in the same great location. The venuehas a nicely sized function room with its own private bar, there are some great offers on beer, there is free wi-fi and it's easy to move around and chat to lots of people. Most importantly it is a friendly and relaxed environment where developers can get together to chat and network. The event will kick off at 6:30 PM and usually goes on until around 11:30 with members coming and going at all times throughout the evening. We usually attract 50 70 members so it is a lively event in which members, both junior and senior, can connect in a relaxed atmosphere and set the development world to rights. Barry or another RecWorks team member will be onsite so if anyone is looking for free recruitment advice it's a great chance to come along for a chat. Developer sessions sponsored byAtlassian, creators ofJIRA,Confluence,Greenhopper, Stashand much, much more. Tools for developers, by developers <strong style="text-align : center">Organised by RecWorks:
*Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: http://skillsmatter.com/event-details/home/first-kill-all-the-product-owners* Part 1. Discrete Math You Need to Know - Presented by Tim Berglund (45 mins approx.) What do you need to know about prime numbers, combinatorics, and the underpinnings of public key cryptography? Well, maybe more than you think! In this talk, we'll explore the branch of mathematics that deals with individual, countable things. Most of the math we learn in school deals with real-valued quantities like mass, length, and time. However, much of the work of the software developer deals with counting, combinations, numbers, graphs, and logical statements: the purview of discrete mathematics. Join us for this brief exploration of an often-overlooked but eminently practical area of mathematics. Part 2. First Kill All the Product Owners - Presented by Tim Berglund (45 mins approx) By now, we are all comfortable with the orthodoxy: the product owner discerns the needs of the customer and feeds them to developers in the form a prioritized backlog. Developers pull work from that backlog, always confident that they're working on the highest-priority feature at the moment, and never having to worry about how those priorities are allocated. This system is simple, efficient, and has helped many teams function better than they used to. It's also time for the system to die. A few revolutionary companies are experimenting with the idea that developers should be in charge not only of when they build new features, but _what_ features to build. Rather than mere code technicians following the will of a product and marketplace expert, developers themselves become experts in their product domain, building the tools users needby conceiving of those tools themselves. Dispensing with the product owner creates an entirely new organizational tenor: one in which everyone is encouraged to master the business's domain, to organize their work in autonomous ways, and to take ownership of the purpose for which the organization exists. Keynote-style presentation with group discussion (audience size allowing). Who should attend? Junior developers, senior developers, team leads Bio Tim is a trainer for GitHub, a speaker internationally and on the No Fluff Just Stufftour in the United States, and is president of the Denver Open Source User Group. He is one of the developers of the Ratpackweb framework, is co-presenter of the O'Reilly Git Master Class, co-author of Building and Testing with Gradleand author of Gradle Beyond the Basics. He blogs occasionally at timberglund.com, and lives in Littleton, CO, USA with the wife of his youth and their three children. Agenda 18:00: Arrive18:15: Talk 1 to start promptly. Presented byTim Berglund (45 mins approx)19:00: Talk 2, also presented by Tim.20:00/20:30:Networking and informal discussion at:The Old Ivy House Pub, 166 Goswell Road EC1V 7DT www.oldivyhouse.co.uk Please Note: Nearest tube: BarbicanNearest Coffee Shop: Sun Coffee Shop, 55-63 Goswell Road, London, EC1V 7EN for if you arrive earlyAfter event networking venue:The Old Ivy House Pub, 166 Goswell Road EC1V 7DTwww.oldivyhouse.co.uk. Refreshments sponsored by GitHub. Sponsor: GitHub is the best way to build software together. GitHub provides tools for easier collaboration and code sharing from any device. Start collaborating todayopen source project hosting is free! https://github.com/ Event organised by RecWorks - http://recworks.co.uk/ *Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: http://skillsmatter.com/event-details/home/first-kill-all-the-product-owners*
Managing Talent Join an all-star panel, with special guest Professor Anthony Finkelstein, as we discuss patterns and antipatterns for managing high-performance individuals and teams, in both academia and industry. Moderated by the LJC's own Simon Maple, this event will provide insight for managers who want to get the most out of their team and for developers seeking to improve their own effectiveness within their team. Who should attend? Everyone! This event is made possible by the generous sponsorship of Goldman Sachs After event drinks sponsored by Goldman Sachs to be held at Patch Bar,58-60 Carter Lane,London,EC4V 5EA -http://www.patch-bar.co.uk/contact.php Please note - You will be required to bring photo ID on the night
**Please note this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place** 48 HR RAFFLE: Two tickets for NoSQL Search Roadshow London 2013 We have been generouslydonated two tickets for the the NoSQL Search Roadshow London 2013 toraffle to two lucky LJC members. The winners will be picked at random early next week, and announced shortly afterwards. To enter simply RSVP to this event and complete the questions. Information from the organiser: A rapidly growing number of organisations are realising the benefits of NoSQL databases such as higher availability and scalability often combined with an existing relational database set-up. The NoSQL Search Roadshow offers ideal opportunities for learning, networking and fueling decision-making in the database area. Unlike most NoSQL events, NoSQL Search Roadshow spans a multitude of technologies and solutions such as MongoDB, Riak, Neo4j, MarkLogic, Hadoop, and Cassandra. The program is divided into two tracks targeted developers and executives respectively. If you prefer a hands-on technical approach you can look forward to joining one of the afternoon training sessions within Neo4j, riak, and MarkLogic! Check out the entire programme here: http://nosqlroadshow.com/nosql-london-2013/ Special offer - Combo Tickets Available! Keen on Graph Databases or interested in Alternative Programming? Book your ticket for NoSQL Search Roadshow along with a ticket for Graph Connect London on 19.11.2013 or Code Mesh on 4-5.12.13 and save up to 210 ! All Group members are very welcome to use special promo code LJC to get 20% discount! For further information and registration, please visit: http://nosqlroadshow.com/nosql-london-2013/combotickets Looking forward to meeting you in London! NoSQL Search Roadshow Team *To enter the raffle for two free tickets simply RSVP to this event and complete the questions. Please note the sponsor may well contact you following this raffle* **Please note this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place** Event organised by RecWorks - http://recworks.co.uk/
New Speakers Clinic Have you heard people banging on about how speaking at the LJC or conferences will help your career? Are you being encouraged to present at brown bags / tech sessions at work? Or maybe you need to present something to management or to the team? Or are you simply interested in public speaking? This session is aimed at NOVICE speakers - people who have never done it before, or have limited experience with presenting, who want to take that first step. We will cover the basics - give you some simple guidelines to help prepare you for your first presentation. The most important thing you should get out of this session is: how to deal with a sea of faces staring expectantly at you. Come to this session if: - You'd like to present at the LJC Open Conference for the first time - You're thinking of doing a lightning talk at the LJC but you're not confident enough yet - You want practical help getting started with presenting. Bio: Trisha Gee is a leader in the London Java Community, involved in the Graduate Development Community and is passionate about attracting different types of people into programming. Her international speaking career was launched off the back of The Disruptor, an open source concurrent programming framework.Since her first appearance at JavaOne 2011, Trisha has spoken at Devoxx Antwerp (twice) & Devoxx UK, QCon London (twice), JAX London (twice), GOTOs Amsterdam, Copenhagen, Aarhus and Berlin, JavaOne (2011, 2012, 2013), GeeCON Poland, MongoDB London, JavaZone, and is due to present in Australia at the end of the year. Her first solo appearance was at the LJC Open Conference, and she's never forgotten the buzz from that event. Trisha has has a wide breadth of industry experience from the 12 years she's been a professional developer with expertise in Java Concurrency and agile processes. She's currently a developer for MongoDB, where she maintains the Java driver. Trisha loves talking at people about technical stuff with a smattering of fluffy-people-stuff and believes we shouldn't all have to make the same mistakes again and again. Agenda: 18:00 Doors Open18:15 Main presentation Please Note: You'll need to follow signs for 'JAX London'. The reception is on conference level 2. Event organised by RecWorks - http://recworks.co.uk/ *Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link:
This event is run by LJC alongside JAX London. It is free to attend but you need to register separately viahttp://www.amiando.com/JAXCommunityNight2013.html LJC @ JAX London Community Night The LJC will host an evening of talks from some of the JAX London speakers as part of the conferences Community Night. Described as a beer, wine and code fuelled taster of the main conference, the community night brings various user groups together and gives us a chance to hear from people not regularly on these shores. We have 3 talks running: Building Reactive applications for Java developers - Jamie Allen Typesafe Director of Consulting and JAX London keynote presenter, Jamie Allen, jets in from Silicon Valley and talks about building reactive applications for Java developers, and how to do that with the Typesafe stack. He will also compare and contrast how that is done with Java versus Scala. Confessions of a Startup CTO Ted Neward In this session, Seattle-based recent CTO and co-founder Ted Neward will talk about making the jump into the startup/entrepreneur world and the lessons hes learned (and continues to learn) thus far about making that leap. Hell cover the technical decisions and decision-making process, and how that relates (or doesnt) back to the world he came fromenterprise business applications. Even if youve never thought about getting into a startup, come on by for a discussion of the modern web app architecture, what hes discovered along the way that relates purely on an architectural level, and how some of the new startup literature can apply equally well to in-house enterprise applications. Little words of wisdom for the developer Guillaume Laforge Through some famous quotes and pictures that will make you think,Guillaume Laforge, Head of Groovy Development for SpringSource, will illustratesome simple principles that he has followed on the projects hes worked on, and walk through the lessons hes learned throughout the journey. Guillaume is the official Groovy Project Manager, and the spec lead of JSR-241, the JSR that standardizes the Groovy dynamic language. He also initiated the creation of the Grails web application framework, and founded the Gaelyk project, a lightweight toolkit for developing applications in Groovy for Google App Engine. If these talks don't float your boat you can always take part in the Google Dart Codelab. Google Dart Code Lab with Chris Buckett In this self-paced, hands-on codelab, you'll learn how to build a simple single-page app for desktop and mobile browsers using Dart. Along the way, you'll learn some of the Dart language and its libraries, create web components, perform client-side templating, use declarative dynamic DOM generation, bind data models to the UI, store data locally in your browser and optimize the app for mobile devices. You should come along with some familiarity with HTML and CSS and object-orientated programming, but you don't need to be an expert in web programming to enjoy this codelab. You'll also need a computer running Windows (Vista, 7, 8), Linux or Mac to run the Dart Editor. Timings: 6pm :Doors open 6pm - 7pm :Drinks 7pm :Sessions and hands-on coding This event is run by LJC alongside JAX London. It is free to attend but you need to register separately via http://www.amiando.com/JAXCommunityNight2013.html
**Please note this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place** 48 HR RAFFLE:Win a free ticket to Code Mesh 2013 (3-5 Dec 2013) We have been generouslydonated a ticket forCode Mesh 2013toraffle to one lucky LJC member. The winner will be picked at random early next week, and announced shortly afterwards. To enter simply RSVP to this event and complete the questions. Information from the organiser: Code Mesh 3-5 Dec: Non-mainstream Programming and Tech Conference in London Meet the inventors and users of the most innovative languages and technologies of the moment. Learn how to use alternative programming to gain the upper hand in fields such as Finance & Banking, Gaming & Social Media or Analytics. Talk Haskell, Scala, Erlang, Elixir, Clojure, Go and more with over 40 top speakers including Dean Wampler, Jose Valim, Dave Thomas, Bruce Tate, Joe Armstrong, Amanda Loucher, Pieter Hintjens, Simon Marlow and many more. See here for more information:http://codemesh.io/#home *To enter the raffle simply RSVPto this event and complete the questions.Please notethe sponsor may well contact you following this raffle* **Please note this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place** Raffle organised by RecWorks - http://recworks.co.uk/
*Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: http://skillsmatter.com/event-details/home/the-bleeding-edge The Bleeding Edge Enterprise Java developers value reliability and stability, but what happens to your technology stack if youre willing to take a risk? At jClarity were running production systems using Html 5, Angular.js, vertx, Mongo, groovy and deploying using chef. Its been an interesting ride: some things worked really well and some things dont. Come along and find out what wed recommend and what wed avoid with hindsight. Well also talk about how we ended up with such a diverse stack and how to make technology choices in a fairer way. Weve made the mistakes so you dont have to. Who should attend? Any level of developer Bio Enterprise Java developers value reliability and stability, but what happens to your technology stack if youre willing to take a risk? At jClarity were running production systems using Html 5, Angular.js, vertx, Mongo, groovy and deploying using Chef. Its been an interesting ride: some things worked really well and some things dont. Come along and find out what wed recommend and what wed avoid with hindsight. Well also talk about how we ended up with such a diverse stack and how to make technology choices in a fairer way. Weve made the mistakes so you dont have to! Martijn Verburg (aka 'the Diabolical Developer'), CTO of jClarity, herds Cats in the Java/open source communities and is constantly humbled by the creative power to be found there! Currently resides in London where he co-leads the London JUG (a JCP EC member), runs the Adopt a JSR and Adopt OpenJDK programmes and drinks good beer at his local pub. You can find him online facilitating development of FOSS projects (PCGen and Ikasan), moderating at the Javaranch or discussing (ranting about?) subjects on the Programmers Stack Exchange. He's become a regular (diabolical) speaker at conferences on Java, FOSS and software development. His "The Well-Grounded Java Developer" title with Ben Evans was a Java/JVM best seller in 2012/13. Martijn was recognised as an official Java Champion in 2012 for services to the Java community. Richard Warburton is a software developer who loves solving complex problems, but actively challenges how much of software development is dealing with day-to-day trivialities. Having obtained a PhD in the area of compiler optimizations and static analysis, he has been applying his abilities in industry. Initially on bytecode analysis software, and more recently on Java performance tuning tools. He actively involves himself in the London Java Community, and its Java Community Process Committee. He has been helping with the push to improve and complete the JSR 310 API (Date and Time) and the expand community engagement with JSR 335 (Lambdas). Richard is currently a Principal Engineer at jClarity and is writing the Java 8 Lambdas title for O'Reilly publishing. Agenda 18:15 Doors open18:30: Main presentation (approx 1 hour including questions)20:00:Networking and informal discussion at:The Old Ivy House Pub, 166 Goswell Road EC1V 7DT www.oldivyhouse.co.uk Please Note: Nearest tube: BarbicanNearest Coffee Shop: Sun Coffee Shop, 55-63 Goswell Road, London, EC1V 7EN for if you arrive earlyAfter event networking venue:The Old Ivy House Pub, 166 Goswell Road EC1V 7DTwww.oldivyhouse.co.uk Event organised by RecWorks - http://recworks.co.uk/ *Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: http://skillsmatter.com/event-details/home/the-bleeding-edge
Android for Java Developers Presented by Carl Harroch. This is the first event in a series of events we are running in collaboration with Londroid.co.uk on Android for Java Programmers. Are you a Java programmer interested in learning about mobile apps? Do you want to broaden your programming horizons by being able to program on different devices? Are you looking to create the next Angry Birds but don't know where to start? This talk aims to give you enough knowledge to get you through the initial learning curve and give you enough knowledge to allow to explore Android on your own. We'll talk about the basic structures of the language, how you use it, what you can use from your existing Java knowledge and what the benefits of becoming a Londroider might be. Who Should Attend: Any java dev interested in getting dirty with Android. Junior is fine Agenda: 18:15: Doors Open18:30: A series of lightning talks from members of the LJC (subjects to be confirmed)18:45: Main presentation 'Android for Java Developers' - Presented by Carl Harroch - @charroch (approx. 60 mins with Q&A)20:00:Networking and informal discussion at: 'Hotel Ibis - London, Euston, St Pancras' - 3 Cardington Street, London, NW1 2LW Please Note: This event is being held at UCL:Harrie Massey Lecture Theatre, University College London,25 Gordon Street, London, WC1H 0AY. Here is a map to help you find the venue: https://maps.google.com/maps?q=51.52576,-0.133343+(Harrie+Massey)&iwloc=A&hl=en&ll=51.52576,-0.133343 http://www.ucl.ac.uk/maps?locationID=134 We will head to 'Hotel Ibis - London, Euston, St Pancras' - 3 Cardington Street, London, NW1 2LW - for networking and further informal discussion after the event:http://www.ibishotel.com/gb/hotel-0921-ibis-london-euston-st-pancras/location.shtml Event organised by RecWorks - http://recworks.co.uk/
PLEASE NOTE THIS IS A SILICON MILKROUNABOUT EVENT NOT AN LJC EVENT. WE ARE USING THE LJC TO GENERATE PUBLICITY OF THE EVENT. TO GUARANTEE A PLACE YOU MUST REGISTER YOUR DETAILS HERE:http://www.siliconmilkroundabout.com/?utm_source=Devs&utm_medium=meetup&utm_content=London_Machine_Learning&utm_campaign=SMR6 Silicon Milkroundabout Startup Jobs Fair, London - on the weekend of the 16/17 November. Just to let you all know, coming up this November is the latest Silicon Milkroundabout, the free jobs fair matching 800+ roles at 120+ UK's top startups with talented Developers, Product Managers and Designers. Register now at http://bit.ly/16ECkYy to come along! It's an exciting opportunity to explore working at a dynamic startup. And its 100% free to attend! Event Details: Saturday 16th & Sunday 17th November 12pm-5pm The Old Truman Brewery, 85 Brick Lane, EC1 Saturday 16 November:for product managers, UI/UXDs, marketing staff (growth hackers, specialists in paid search, SEO, social media, brand and community Managers), web and data analytics and insight. From PMs, to lead designers, to recent graduates and interns. Sunday 17 November: for developers, software engineers, DevOps/TechOps, front end, tech leads, back end and full stack developers, DevRel, game developers, developers for mobile and desktop, Evangelists & Technical Community Managers. From CTOs, to experienced developers to recent graduates and interns. If you are a startup company looking to exhibit in the future, please email startups@siliconmilkround.com and check out who will be attending our next event! http://siliconmilkroundabout.com/startups/ We have a range of startups attending, from bootstrapped, very early staged, to high growth stage startups! Website: http://bit.ly/16ECkYy Facebook: http://www.facebook.com/siliconmilkroundabout Twitter: http://www.twitter.com/milkroundabout Google+: http://gplus.to/milkroundabout Pinterest: http://pinterest.com/milkroundabout PLEASE NOTE THIS IS A SILICON MILKROUNABOUT EVENT NOT AN LJC EVENT. WE ARE USING THE LJC TO GENERATE PUBLICITY OF THE EVENT. TO GUARANTEE A PLACE YOU MUST REGISTER YOUR DETAILS HERE:http://www.siliconmilkroundabout.com/?utm_source=Devs&utm_medium=meetup&utm_content=London_Machine_Learning&utm_campaign=SMR6
The London Developer Sessions This is our monthly social gathering, which incorporates members of The London Java Community and Graduate Developer Communities. This is an informal social evening most of the evening will be spent having ad-hoc informal discussions in small groups. We are back to The Slug and Lettuce this month: 19/20 Hanover Street, Londonhttp://www.slugandlettuce.co.uk/hanover_street/. We have had some fantastic feedback from those who have attended the event at this venue before and will be holding this month's event in the same great location. The venuehas a nicely sized function room with its own private bar, there are some great offers on beer, there is free wi-fi and it's easy to move around and chat to lots of people. Most importantly it is a friendly and relaxed environment where developers can get together to chat and network. The event will kick off at 6:30 PM and usually goes on until around 11:30 with members coming and going at all times throughout the evening. We usually attract 50 70 members so it is a lively event in which members, both junior and senior, can connect in a relaxed atmosphere and set the development world to rights. Barry or another RecWorks team member will be onsite so if anyone is looking for free recruitment advice it's a great chance to come along for a chat. Developer sessions sponsored byAtlassian, creators ofJIRA,Confluence,Greenhopper, Stashand much, much more. Tools for developers, by developers <strong style="text-align : center">Organised by RecWorks:
London Java Community Open Conference Details of the Conference sessions proposed are being placed on the LJC Open Conference website Directions to venue (Google Map)The entrance to the IBM offices is on Upper Ground (Google Street View) opposite the junction of Cornwall street. You will see a driveway going up to the first floor of the building, walk up the footpath on this driveway to arrive at the entrance to the IBM building. Rough Schedule overview:8.30 am Sign-in hands over to security (will be very slow)9.30 am Brief introduction, discussing how day will work and organising the board10.10 am Conference Keynote12.40 Lunch5.30 pm Conference wrap up5.30 pm+ Social event TBC Conference overviewLJC Conference #5 is a one day event where you can attend a wide range of talks, workshops and practical sessions, drawn from the experiences of those in industry. Its a great opportunity to learn withup to 30 sessions during the day, including a keynote, lightning talks, open source project overviews, a Java 7 track, discussion groups and a whole lot more. What people said about our previous conferences (see photos): "Fantastic day, learned a great deal and made some valuable connections with people in the industry, more of these please""Amazing forum. Met some of the best minds in the field. Inspired me to learn more and work harder.. ""Brilliant time! Learnt a lot and met a lot of great people. Look forward to the next one :-)""An excellent opportunity to learn more about things I should know about but didn't" Those who want to can get more involved and are encouraged to share there ideas and experiences. Some sessions have already been proposed, why not let us know what you want to see or present? You can also come up with ideas and sessions on the morning of the conference (as with an unconference)!! We encourage you to talk about a wide range of topics, not just specifics of the Java language, Spring, Hibernate, Open Source, OSGi, etc, but also about tools and practices - eg. software craftsmanship, BDD, TDD, Kanban, Agile and other practices that enhance our world. Due to the diversity of the Java ecosystem in terms of languages, we have many people from the Groovy, Scala and Clojure user groups will be sharing their experiences. The open conference has a minimal payment to cover costs of food and venue. No payment is made to speakers from this entry fee. If you are unable to pay via Paypal, please contact the organiser directly and we will try to seek alternative solution.
**Please note this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place** 48 HR RAFFLE: Win one of two tickets to Thing Monk, London - 2/3 Dec 2013 We have been generouslydonated two tickets for Thing Monktoraffle to two lucky LJC members. The winner will be picked at random early next week, and announced shortly afterwards. To enter simply RSVP to this event and complete the questions. Information from the organiser: ThingMonk is a two day event unpacking the Internet of Things. It bridges Web Startup Internet of Things communities with their peers in the Industrial Internet/Machine to Machine space. Dec 2nd and 3rd, Shoreditch, London. http://thingmonk.com Hacking Hardware and Software | Talks | UX | Big Data | OSS | Robot Bartenders | Craft Coffee | Beautiful Food A 2 day event unpacking the Internet of Things. 20 great speakers coming to London to share a vision on hardware, sensor data, integration, sustainability & UX for the Internet of Things. Bridging Hacker Culture, Enterprise IT and Industrial Automation For more information see here: http://redmonk.com/thingmonk/ For a 20% discount please use the code: LJC Raffle organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here: http://blog.recworks.co.uk/
**Please note this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place** 48 HR RAFFLE: Win 1 of 10 tickets to Java2Days 2013 (3/4 Dec - Bulgaria) We have been generouslydonated 10 tickets for Java2Days 2013toraffle to 10 lucky LJC members. The winner will be picked at random mid week, and announced shortly afterwards. To enter simply RSVP to this event and complete the questions. Information from the organiser: Java2Days, Mobile2Days and Cloud2Days conferences 2013 provide 10 free passes for the event to LJCmembers! The 5th edition of the international conferences will be held on 3 and 4 December in Inter Expo Center(IEC), Sofia, Bulgaria. We are honored to provide 10 free passes and eager to see the lucky winners at the conferences. The event this year is going to be more powerful, attractive and energized with: - 3 technologies conferences - 2 days sessions - 1 place - Parallel tracks - Experienced worldwide speakers - Presenting the latest from the world of Java, Mobile and Cloud world ... and more - Hands-on-labs - Demo and Relax Zone - Free trainings - Q&A with the speakers - Possibility to attend the dinner & party with the speakers on 3rd December ... and to have fun! The web site of the event is available here. All speakers' interviews, feedback and interesting moments inpictures and video from the previous editions of the forum are available on the conferences flickr profile. To apply for free pass, please RSVP to this event. Expect to meet the 10 lucky winners on the conferences - 3 and 4 December in Inter Expo Center (IEC),Sofia, Bulgaria. For more questions, please contact the conferences organizers at info@java2days.com or +359 89 6880937. *Please note travel/accommodation not included in this prize draw. Your details may be passed to the event organisers* Raffle organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here: http://blog.recworks.co.uk/
**Please note this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place** 48 HR RAFFLE: Win 1 of 2 tickets to The Clojure eXchange on 6th December We have been generouslydonated 2 tickets forThe Clojure eXchange toraffle to 2 lucky LJC members. The winner will be picked at random at the start of next week, and announced shortly afterwards. To enter simply RSVP to this event and complete the questions. Information from the organiser: The Clojure eXchange returns to Skills Matter for its third year on December 6th, bringing together leading experts from around the world to learn and share everything Clojure including Speech acts, Scala, the Clojure Cup, Clojurescript and more. As with Clojure eXchange 2012, this year promises to feature the cream of the crop from the Clojure community. This years line-up is being put together by Bruce Durling, CTO and co-founder of Mastodon C as well as co-founder of the London Clojurians and the London Python Dojo, and features top names like Carin Meirer, David Pollak, Sam Aaron and many more. With a huge range of talks, case studies, live coding and even music, this is the Clojure conference to see! See the full lineup Share the Clojure eXchange excitement! Tweet #Clojurex Please use the codeLJC-RAFFLE-CLOJURE for a 45 discount from the full ticket price. *Please note travel/accommodation not included in this prize draw. Your details may be passed to the event organisers* Raffle organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here: http://blog.recworks.co.uk/
Come hack on the Java implementation that you use everyday! Its a hackday, so people can work on whatever they want, but activities are likely to include: * Improved OpenJDK test coverage* OpenJDK Warnings cleanup* Small Bugs Fixes* The betterrev project If you're not familiar with the openjdk codebase there will be people there to help you get started, including some from IBM who work on OpenJDK professionally. Useful Links: * OpenJDK: http://openjdk.java.net/* Adopt Openjdk Information: https://java.net/projects/adoptopenjdk/pages/AdoptOpenJDK* Betterrev: https://bitbucket.org/adoptopenjdk/betterrev
PLEASE NOTE THIS IS A JBUG EVENT NOT AN LJC EVENT. WE ARE USING THE LJC TO GENERATE PUBLICITY OF THE EVENT. TO GUARANTEE A PLACE YOU MUST REGISTER YOUR DETAILS HERE:http://www.c2b2.co.uk/london_jbug_december_2013 JBUG EVENT: What's new in Infinispan 6.0In this talk, Mircea Markus (Infinispan Lead) covers the major features added in the 6.0 release to the Infinispan ecosystem: querying in client/server mode better integration with the persistent storage multi-master cross-site replication support for heterogeneous clusters Participants will take home a better understanding of Infinispan capabilities and the use cases in which it can be put at work. Ideally the attendees should have a basic knowledge of the in-memory data grids. Speaker Mircea Markusis a principal R&D engineer at JBoss, a division of Red Hat. Since 2007, he has been working on various clustering components, such as JBossCache, PojoCache or JGoups. He is one of the founders and project lead of Infinispan on on which he has been concentrating his efforts for the last four years. He is also the founder of project Radargun (a benchmarking framework for data grids) and represents Red Hat on the Expert Group of JSR 350 (Java State Management). Please here for more details:http://www.meetup.com/JBoss-User-Group/events/148580392/ PLEASE NOTE THIS IS A JBUG EVENT NOT AN LJC EVENT. WE ARE USING THE LJC TO GENERATE PUBLICITY OF THE EVENT. TO GUARANTEE A PLACE YOU MUST REGISTER YOUR DETAILS HERE:http://www.c2b2.co.uk/london_jbug_december_2013
London Java Community - Meet a Project Are you looking to join an existing open source project, but don't know where to start? Are you interested in finding out more about open source software in general? Are you looking to start a personal project but don't know what to base it on? Are you interested in trying out some new technologies and wondering how to use them in a personal project? If the answer is yes, this event could be for you.This is part of the MaP series of events designed to connect open source software projects and potential contributors. It will be in a speed networking style, involving Project Ambassadors speaking to small groups of 3-6 developers. Giving a pitch of an open source or personal project, then answering questions before moving on to another group. The events are intended to answer potential contributors questions around the projects, focussed mainly around starting points. There are a lot of developers in the industry, from students to experienced developers that are interested to get involved in something in addition to their day time position, but aren't really sure where to start. There are also a great deal of interesting projects covering everything from popular open source frameworks to the Adopt a JSR program launched by the LJC. Many of these projects rely on support/enthusiasm from developers and are keen to get more enthusiastic people involved. Not to mention that most candidates that get involved in personal projects seem to escalate their careers, salaries, day rates and passion for the industry. You will get a chance to meet project leads for 3-6 different projects and discuss the differences between them and their experience with open source development and their experiences in general. Please note: This event is being held at Shoreditch Village Hall, 33 Hoxton Square, London, N1 6NN -http://shoreditchworks.com/shoreditch-village-hall Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here: http://blog.recworks.co.uk/
*Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: http://skillsmatter.com/event-details/home/ljcs-december-meet-with-madhu-konda-joshua-whle Speakers from the London Java Community Two talks from members of the London Java Community. Madhusudhan Konda will present - "What's new in Java 8?" JoshuaWhle will present -Starting with nothing, starting with little, starting with something What's new in Java 8? Presented by Madhusudhan Konda (30 mins approx) Java8 is all about break through enhancements. There are lambdas, functional interfaces, streams and others that would make a developers life easy! The session will cover the Java8 features in details. The session will be covering Java 8 new features as a powerpoint presentation, with example code. Suitable for anyone who has been involved in Java space and wishing to learn more about the lambdas and functional interfaces. Java is a pre-requisite. Starting with nothing, starting with little, starting with something Presented by JoshuaWhle (30 mins approx with questions) If you want to start a business but dont know where to begin, or/ For those who want an insight in how (quickly) a tech stack evolves in a start-up.Powerpoint presentation along with previous examplesSuitable for:Developers and entrepreneurs. Also suitable for undergraduates. Bios: Joshua has started 5 companies, 4 of them failed, 5th work in progress. Grew up in the Netherlands and Switzerland and has spent the past 3 years in the UK. Madu is based in London, and has been working in the Java space for over 13 years. Madhu is author of Just {title} books (Just Spring, Just Spring Integration, Just Spring Data Access). Watch out for Madhu's next upcoming book Just Hibernate in a couple of weeks. Madhu enjoys writing and giving talks in and round London. Expecting Just Java8 in Q114. Agenda: 18:15 Doors open18:30: Main presentations19:30/20:00:Networking and informal discussion at:The Old Ivy House Pub, 166 Goswell Road EC1V 7DTwww.oldivyhouse.co.uk Please Note: Nearest tube: BarbicanNearest Coffee Shop: Sun Coffee Shop, 55-63 Goswell Road, London, EC1V 7EN for if you arrive earlyAfter event networking venue:The Old Ivy House Pub, 166 Goswell Road EC1V 7DTwww.oldivyhouse.co.uk Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here: http://blog.recworks.co.uk/ *Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: http://skillsmatter.com/event-details/home/ljcs-december-meet-with-madhu-konda-joshua-whle
PLEASE NOTE THIS IS A GLASSFISH USER GROUP EVENT NOT AN LJC EVENT. WE ARE USING THE LJC TO GENERATE PUBLICITY OF THE EVENT. TO GUARANTEE A PLACE YOU MUST REGISTER YOUR DETAILS HERE:http://www.c2b2.co.uk/come_and_play_with_java_ee_7 GlassFish User Group: 'Come and Play! with Java EE 7' by Antonio Goncalves As you know, Java EE is old-fashioned, heavyweight, cumbersome, and made mostly of boilerplate code. Who would develop a modern Web application with such a technological stack? Who would start a heavy application server, deploy some EJBs, and wait ages for integration tests to run - only to end up with an ugly Web page? If you like HTML5 front ends with responsive design, sexy graphical components, manageable REST interfaces, easy asynchronous processing, reliable messaging, and transactional databases, come to this session to see two developers writing and testing a real Java EE 7 Web application within 1 hour. Speaker Antonio is a senior developer specialized in Java/Java EE. As a consultant he advises customers and helps them in defining and developing their software architecture. This Java Champion is also the founder of the Paris JUG, Devoxx France and an independent JCP member on various JSRs (Java EE 6, Java EE 7, EJB 3.2). Based on his Java EE experiences, he has written three books covering Java EE 5, Java EE6 and recently Java EE 7 with Glassfish 4. For more information please see here: http://www.meetup.com/GlassFish-User-Group/events/151474512/ PLEASE NOTE THIS IS A GLASSFISH USER GROUP EVENT NOT AN LJC EVENT. WE ARE USING THE LJC TO GENERATE PUBLICITY OF THE EVENT. TO GUARANTEE A PLACE YOU MUST REGISTER YOUR DETAILS HERE: http://www.c2b2.co.uk/come_and_play_with_java_ee_7
*Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link:http://skillsmatter.com/podcast/home/mutation-analysis-or-what-code-coverage-doesnt-tell-us Mutation Analysis or What Code Coverage Doesn't Tell Us Presented by Gleb Smirnov (approx 1 hour) What do I do if I have lots of tests but still regularly encounter production incidents?What do I do if my Code Coverage metrics are cool, but the code isn't?Obviously, it's time to test the tests. A great way to do so was invented way back in 1971, but the Industry is only now starting to recognize it. Long story short,Mutation Analysis messes with the source code, andthenruns the tests. All the good tests should fail, and the rest should be fixed. The talk features a detailed overview of the general concept of Mutation Analysis, covers the available Java tools to do it, and shares a couple of success stories. The event will cover Mutation Analysis, an approach that lets engineers be more confident in the quality of their tests ans code. They will learn to use this approach, and it is important to do so, as it saves a lot of time & nerve compared to classical ways like Code Coverage and Code Review. Subjects covered: Problems of Unit Testing, general idea of Mutation Analysis, java tools for it (pitest), success stories, performance evaluation. All shown in a presentation (not ppt, but web-based) Suitable for undergrads. Bio:Gleb Smirnov:Dealing with stability-critical applications, including, but not limited to financial systems, for a number of years. A fierce practitioner of TDD. Actively promoting Mutation Analysis in russian-speaking JUGs, mainly via articles and talks. Recently changed the employer from Yandex to Deutsche Bank. Agenda: 18:15 Doors open18:30: Main presentation (approx 1 hour excl questions)20:00:Networking and informal discussion at:The Old Ivy House Pub, 166 Goswell Road EC1V 7DTwww.oldivyhouse.co.uk Please Note: Nearest tube: BarbicanNearest Coffee Shop: Sun Coffee Shop, 55-63 Goswell Road, London, EC1V 7EN for if you arrive earlyAfter event networking venue:The Old Ivy House Pub, 166 Goswell Road EC1V 7DTwww.oldivyhouse.co.uk Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here: http://blog.recworks.co.uk/ *Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: http://skillsmatter.com/podcast/home/mutation-analysis-or-what-code-coverage-doesnt-tell-us
A hack day for any and all developers to come and collaborate on projects or simply discover new technologies together and enhance their skills. Whether you want to build Java, Groovy, Scala or Clojure apps, experiment with OpenJDK 8, get to grips with Git & Github, trying out one of the NoSQL databases like MongoDB or Neo4j or make some some robots dance, there are plenty of interesting things to work on. Please note the Salesforce offices in London are now in the Heron Tower Based in the city of London near main transport links, its a great chance to discovering how to get the most out of new technology and practices. Working together helps developers tackle technical challenges and techniques that are common regardless of language (github pull requests, using NoSQL data source, managing deployment, etc). Working together also helps draw from each others experiences and get more done. www.hackthetower.co.uk Rough ScheduleYou can get into the offices from 9.30am onwards and have some breakfast and coffee, relax and take in the stunning view from the 25th floor of the Heron Tower. 10.30am - Get together and discuss application ideas & things you want to try out.10.45am - Split into groups and get going1pm - Lunch time (sandwiches, quiche, fruit and drinks provided, requests taken)1.30pm onwards - Keep on hacking until you have had enough Sign upPlease include your your full name so I can organise a visitor pass forHeron Tower. In total, there is space for around 50 developers on the day. Food & drink will be provided, thanks to our hosts Salesforce.com
*Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link:http://bit.ly/1d323u3 Android and the Web of Things: NFC, QR, BLE and ArduinoPresented by Dominique Guinard(40 mins approx not incl. questions) What if every day objects could all become part of a gigantic network also known as the Internet of Things? What if your watch, guitar, bike or bottle of organic iced-tea could all have an active digital identity on the Web? Combine techs such as NFC, QR-codes, EPC or Bluetooth low energy and Android smart phones and this becomes an ideal framework to implement the Web of Things... Subjects covered: Introduction to the Internet of Things and the Web of ThingsUsing Android as a gateway for the Web of Things QR codes, 1D barcodes, NFC, EPC, Bluetooth Low energy in an Android and Java context Who should attend: Talking about the IoT/WoT context and intro, anyone who isn't in the field yet really.Talking about the pure coding it will stay high level (because the topic is broad) open to all.Suitable for undergraduates also. Bio: Dominique Guinard (aka Dom Guinard) is the CTO and co-founder of EVRYTHNG, a software company providing Active Digital Identities, for any physical object. He got his Ph.D. from ETH Zurich, where he worked on laying down the foundations of the Web of Things: a world-wide network of interconnected objects (sensors, appliances, machines and tagged objects) and co-founded the Web of Things (WoT) community. Before this, he worked on bringing industrial networks of RFID-tagged objects to the Web at the MIT Auto-ID Labs in the USA. He also worked 4 years for SAP on the software aspects of the next generation platform for integrating the Internet of Things with business processes. Agenda: 18:15 Doors open18:30: Main presentation19:30/20:00:Networking and informal discussion at:The Old Ivy House Pub, 166 Goswell Road EC1V 7DTwww.oldivyhouse.co.uk Please Note: Nearest tube: BarbicanNearest Coffee Shop: Sun Coffee Shop, 55-63 Goswell Road, London, EC1V 7EN for if you arrive earlyAfter event networking venue:The Old Ivy House Pub, 166 Goswell Road EC1V 7DTwww.oldivyhouse.co.uk Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here: http://blog.recworks.co.uk/ *Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: http://bit.ly/1d323u3
We will have a Google Hangout setup for groups participating remotely. While you can hack in a group of any size, 5-15 is the ideal range. We will also send out the hacking materials shortly before the broadcast, so follow http://twitter.com/_nighthacking">@_nighthacking for the latest updates. Note that the start time in Meetup Everywhere does not properly reflect your local time zone. Here are some other time zones that may match where you live:PST: 10AMEST: 1PMBRST: 4PM or 16:00GMT: 6PM or 18:00CST: 7PM or 19:00IST: 11:30PM or 23:30 If you are joining us live from Asia then you are a real NightHacker See http://www.meetup.com/nighthackingworldwide/London-GB/1074412/ for sign-up and details. Shared venue TBA!
**Please note this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place** 48 HR RAFFLE: Win 1 of 2 tickets toJfokus(Stockholm / 3-5th February 2014) We have been generouslydonated 2 tickets for Jfokus toraffle to 2 lucky LJC members. The winner will be picked at random at the start of next week, and announced shortly afterwards. The tickets arefor the two day conference 4-5 February(Monday 3 Feb Univesity Day not inluded) To enter simply RSVP to this event and complete the questions. Information: TheJfokusconference is being run by our community friends inStockholm, Sweden on 3-5th February 2014. It's a 3 day, Java-centric conference. Theyare especially interested in meeting more of the London JavaCommunity. This will be the 8th edition of Jfokus and more than 1450 people areexpected to attend, so it would be a great chance to network withother developers. It's worth highlighting that our very own Richard Warburton andMartijn Verburg will present. Martin Thompson will also be deliveringthe ending Keynote. There is a wide range of topics and here some of the thing you mightbe looking for: -Java 8 Language Capabilities - What's in it for you? -G-Force! Self-Powering Global Sensor Nets for the Internet of Things -Android Programming: Pushing The Limits -Reliable real time processing with Kafka and Storm -Metadata features in Java SE 8 -Building applications on Hadoop- -Understanding (Organizational) Effectiveness -Using Java Flight Recorder -Angular vs Ember vs Backbone and Knockout in real applications -Top Ten Proactive Defenses for Java -Navigating the Stream API -Lambda Programming Lab -A Developers Perspective on Google Glass -Every day is like a little DDOS attack. A billion games played perday and much more Speakers you can meet include: -Mark Reinhold, Oracle -Ken Walker, IBM Canada -Richard Warburton & Martijn Verburg, jClarity -Jim Webber, Neo Technology -Martin Thompson, Real Logic (creator of Disruptor) -Venkat Subramaniam, Agile Developer, Inc -James Roper, Typesafe -Simon Ritter, Oracle -Jim Manico, WhiteHat Security and many more! All talks are in English! See full schedule here: http://www.jfokus.se/jfokus/schedule.jsp ; **All LJC members are welcome to a 12% discount on tickets using this link to register: http://www.jfokus.se/jfokus/register.jsp?discount=UgLJCdiscount ; *Please note travel/accommodation not included in this prize draw. Your details may be passed to the event organisers* Raffle organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here: http://blog.recworks.co.uk/
Come hack on the Java implementation that you use everyday! Its a hackday, so people can work on whatever they want, but activities are likely to include: * Improved OpenJDK test coverage* OpenJDK Warnings cleanup* Small Bugs Fixes* The betterrev project If you're not familiar with the openjdk codebase there will be people there to help you get started, including some from IBM who work on OpenJDK professionally. Useful Links: * OpenJDK: http://openjdk.java.net/* Adopt Openjdk Information: https://java.net/projects/adoptopenjdk/pages/AdoptOpenJDK* Betterrev: https://bitbucket.org/adoptopenjdk/betterrev NB: you need to bring a laptop with you to this event!
*Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: http://skillsmatter.com/event-details/home/java-communications-faster-than-c-plus-plus Java Communications Faster than C++ Presented byGuillermo L. Taboada(approx 1 hour excl Q&A) All Java communications rely on TCP/IP, trading off portability in exchange for performance. But performance, both low latency and throughput, is key in the actual context of exponential increase in the amount of network-based computational resources, distributed applications, massive online services and enormous amounts of data. This talk will cover several efforts carried out during the last years in optimizing Java communications, which have succeeded in overtaking even natively-compiled applications (C++). People concerned about the efficiency, performance and scalability of Java distributed applications will enjoy joining the discussion. Subjects covered: The subjects covered: - Java IO/NIO Sockets as baseline Java communications - Java Fast Sockets - Alternatives to native TCP/IP stack. - Java on Low-latency networks (10/40 Gig. Ethernet and InfiniBand) - Impact of Java communications performance on popular middleware (JMS, ZeroMQ/jeroMQ, Hazelcast, Oracle Coherence, Cassandra, HBase) PPT presentation as well as running live test cases Who shoud attend: Performance-concerned developers, system administrators and project leaders which deal with low-latency and high-throughput issues. Bio: Guillermo L. Taboada, PhD (http://gac.udc.es/~gltaboada). He has been doing research in high performance communications in Java for the last 10 years, leading a bunch of projects such as Java Fast Sockets and FastMPJ (the fastests sockets and MPI Java implementations). He is CEO and Co-founder of Torus Software Solutions, a company which helps you to accelerate your most critical Java applications. References of Guillermo's projects are his works for HP, Amazon WS, NASA, ESA and the FSI of the City. Agenda: 18:15 Doors open. Lightning talks presented by Sam Hepburn and Peter Lawrey.18:45:Main presentation (approx 1 hour excl questions)20:00:Networking and informal discussion at:The Old Ivy House Pub, 166 Goswell Road EC1V 7DTwww.oldivyhouse.co.uk Please Note: Nearest tube: BarbicanNearest Coffee Shop: Sun Coffee Shop, 55-63 Goswell Road, London, EC1V 7EN for if you arrive early Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here: http://blog.recworks.co.uk/ *Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: http://skillsmatter.com/event-details/home/java-communications-faster-than-c-plus-plus
LJC Festive Un-Party! Comeone, come all and join us for the LJC festive un-party. It will be on the 29th January at the Village Hall in Shoreditch. The refreshments are being sponsored by our good friends Atlassian and Hazelcast. This will be something a little different to our usual LJC events and will include a combination of open mic style presentations, lightning talks and a few surprises. We are also going to be getting in the party mood with something a bit new in the shape of blind-ignite talks If you are unfamiliar with the concept - in ignite talks each speaker gets 5 minutes, and must use 20 slides with each slide advancing automatically after 15 seconds, forcing speakers to get to the point, fast. We're going to spice this up by giving the presenter little or no time to prepare for the talk. Meaning that a senior speaker will be tasked with giving an ignite presentation that they haven't seen before. We'll also be having an update on what's been happening with Adopt-a-JSR, the LJC Book club and all the other things that go on within the LJC. Please note: This event is being held at Shoreditch Village Hall, 33 Hoxton Square, London, N1 6NN -http://shoreditchworks.com/shoreditch-village-hall Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here: http://blog.recworks.co.uk/ Hazelcast is the leading open source in-memory data grid. Byhaving multiple nodes (JVM) form a cluster, data is evenly distributedamong the nodes. This allows for horizontal scalability both interms of available storage space and processing power. Backupsare also distributed in a similar fashion to other nodes, based onconfiguration, thereby protecting against single node failure. Visitus at www.hazelcast.com
**Please note this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place** 48 HR RAFFLE: 1 ticket to QCon London (March 5-7, 2014) We have been generously donated one ticket for the QCon London 2014 to raffle to one lucky LJC member. The winner will be picked at random early next week, and announced shortly afterwards. To enter simply RSVP to this event. Information from the organiser: QCon London is a practitioner-driven conference designed for people influencing innovation in their software development teams: team leads, architects, project managers, engineering directors. There will be two days of full & half day tutorials from March 3-4 (Mon-Tues) and a full 3-day conference from March 5-7 (Wed-Fri). The 8th annual QCon London will feature over 100 speakers presenting more than 80 presentations across 15 tracks covering topics like Java, Big Data, NoSQL, Agile, Cloud, HTML5, Mobile, Architecture, and more. Last year's event was completely sold out with over 1,200 attendees! More information is available at: http://qconlondon.com/london-2014 Attendees can register at: https://secure.trifork.com/london-2014/registration/ Please use the promotional code JAVA100 - to receive 100 off the usual cost. Early Bird expires Feb 5th. You can still save 249! *This prize does not include travel/accommodation costs* Raffle organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here: http://blog.recworks.co.uk/
A hack day for any and all developers to come and collaborate on projects or simply discover new technologies together and enhance their skills. Bring your laptop and your desire to learn and have fun! Whether you want to build Java, Groovy, Scala, Force.com or Clojure apps, experiment with OpenJDK 8, get to grips with Git & Github, deploy apps with Heroku, try out one of the NoSQL databases like MongoDB or Neo4j or make some some robots dance, there are plenty of interesting things to work on. This month we are also co-hosting the Adopt Openjdk hackday. Come hack on the Java implementation that you use everyday! * Improved OpenJDK test coverage* OpenJDK Warnings cleanup* Small Bugs Fixes* The betterrev project If you're not familiar with the openjdk codebase there will be people there to help you get started, including some from IBM who work on OpenJDK professionally. Please note the Salesforce offices in London are now in the Heron Tower (where parts of Series 3 of Sherlock Homes were filmed) Based in the city of London near main transport links, its a great chance to discovering how to get the most out of new technology and practices. Working together helps developers tackle technical challenges and techniques that are common regardless of language (github pull requests, using NoSQL data source, managing deployment, etc). Working together also helps draw from each others experiences and get more done. www.hackthetower.co.uk Rough ScheduleYou can get into the offices from 9.30am onwards and have some breakfast and coffee, relax and take in the stunning view from the 26th floor of the Heron Tower. 10.30am - Get together and discuss application ideas & things you want to try out.10.45am - Split into groups and get going1pm - Lunch time (sandwiches, quiche, fruit and drinks provided, requests taken)1.30pm onwards - Keep on hacking until you have had enough or want to go to the pub! Sign upPlease include your your full name so I can organise a visitor pass forHeron Tower. In total, there is space for around 50 developers on the day. Food & drink will be provided, thanks to our hosts Salesforce.com
PLEASE NOTE THIS IS A JBUG EVENT NOT AN LJC EVENT. WE ARE USING THE LJC TO GENERATE PUBLICITY OF THE EVENT. TO GUARANTEE A PLACE YOU MUST REGISTER YOUR DETAILS HERE:http://www.c2b2.co.uk/london_jbug_february_2014 JBUG EVENT: Extending WildFly WildFly is fully modular application server where most of functionality is implemented by sets of extensions also known as subsystems. Subsystems give you low level access to application servers functionalities such as: JBoss Modules for class loading MSC for services Deployment processors Domain management model The talk, presented byToma Cerar- Software Engineer at Red Hat -will show how to implement a new subsystem that will scan deployed applications and detect custom framework specifics and react to them. We will learn how to define subsystem's management model, expose it through CLI and show how to enable persistent configuration. Presentation will also touch how news subsystem get added to WildFly installation and how can new distribution format WildFly core help extension developers. Speaker Bio Toma Ceraris a Software Engineer currently working on WildFly Application Server at Red Hat. His interests include Java EE based applications, e-commerce, integrations with various systems and technologies.He is passionate about building java community in Slovenia where he is leading local OpenBlend JUG. Please here for more details:http://www.meetup.com/JBoss-User-Group/events/159834692/ PLEASE NOTE THIS IS A JBUG EVENT NOT AN LJC EVENT. WE ARE USING THE LJC TO GENERATE PUBLICITY OF THE EVENT. TO GUARANTEE A PLACE YOU MUST REGISTER YOUR DETAILS HERE:http://www.c2b2.co.uk/london_jbug_february_2014
LJC: Mini Open Conference In the past we have had a number of very successful LJC Open Conferences. This is the first of *hopefully* a series of mini-open conferences. It will be an evening in which you can attend a range of talks, workshops and practical sessions, drawn from the experiences of those in industry. Its a great opportunity to learn with up to 10-15 sessions during the evening, including lightning talks, open source project overviews, live hacking, roundtables and a whole lot more. Essentially the content will be entirely driven by the attendees on the evening. There is a question on the signup page if you are open to giving a presentation on the evening. We will try to accommodate what is suggested. You can also come up with ideas and sessions on the evening of the conference (as with an unconference)!! We encourage you to talk about a wide range of topics, not just specifics of the Java language, Spring, Hibernate, Open Source, OSGi, etc, but also about tools and practices - eg. software craftsmanship, BDD, TDD, Kanban, Agile and other practices that enhance our world. Due to the diversity of the Java ecosystem in terms of languages, we have many people from the Groovy, Scala and Clojure user groups will be sharing their experiences. What people said about our previous full day conferences (see photos): "Fantastic day, learned a great deal and made some valuable connections with people in the industry, more of these please""Amazing forum. Met some of the best minds in the field. Inspired me to learn more and work harder.. ""Brilliant time! Learnt a lot and met a lot of great people. Look forward to the next one :-)""An excellent opportunity to learn more about things I should know about but didn't" Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here: http://blog.recworks.co.uk/
The Zen of Architecture with iDesign's Juval Lowy For the beginner architect, there are many options for doing pretty much anything. But for the Master architect, there are only a few. In this dense session Juval Lowy will explain his approach to large system analysis and design, using volatility to decompose a system into its comprising services. Juval will contrast it with the most common mistake done in architecture, using functionality to identify services. These are universal design principles, and Juval will use examples from software and non-software systems alike. There will also be a Q &A session with Juval to spark debate about all things related to design and architecture. This is an event for all software professionals of all levels. This Meet-up is being held in conjunction with the Canary Wharf .Net User Group. Sponsors:
*Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: https://skillsmatter.com/meetups/6208-introduction-to-java-8-java-time "Introduction to Java 8 java.time" presented by Jim Gough - 45 mins <b style="font-size : 16px">and <b style="font-size : 16px">"Twins: FP and OOP" presented by Richard Warburton - 45 mins -Introduction to Java 8 java.time Java 8 will be shortly launching and this is a great opportunity to take a tour through the API and see the new features. There will be a short presentation followed by live coding. <b style="font-size : 16px">Bio: Jim Gough has worked with java.time for several years on the Adopt A JSR program for the London Java Community. -Twins: FP and OOP Object-Oriented Programming has well established design principles, such as SOLID. For many developers architecture and functional programming are at odds with each other: they dont know how their existing tricks of the trade convert into functional design. This problem becomes worse as hybrid languages such as Scala, Java 8 and Ruby become common. Well talk about how functional programming helps you implement the SOLID principles, and how a functional mindset can actually help you achieve the holy grail of OO, encapsulation. Bio: Richard Warburton is an empirical technologist and solver of deep-dive technical problems. Recently he has been working on data analytics for high performance computing and has written a book on Java 8 Lambdas for OReilly. He is a leader in the London Java Community and organised the Adopt-a-JSR programs for Java 8 and runs the Openjdk Hackdays. Richard is also a known conference speaker, having talked at JavaOne, JFokus, Devoxx, Geecon and JAX London. Previously he worked on static analysis problems and compilers and has obtained a PhD in Computer Science from The University of Warwick. Who should attend: Open to all <b style="font-size : 16px">Agenda: 18:15 Doors open.18:30 approx:Main presentations"Introduction to Java 8 java.time" presented by Jim Gough - 45 mins and"Twins: FP and OOP" presented by Richard Warburton - 45 mins20:00:Networking and informal discussion at:The Old Ivy House Pub, 166 Goswell Road EC1V 7DTwww.oldivyhouse.co.uk Please Note: Nearest tube: BarbicanNearest Coffee Shop: Sun Coffee Shop, 55-63 Goswell Road, London, EC1V 7EN for if you arrive early Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here: http://blog.recworks.co.uk/ *Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: https://skillsmatter.com/meetups/6208-introduction-to-java-8-java-time
*Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: https://skillsmatter.com/meetups/6213-effective-system-integrations-with-apache-camel Effective System Integrations with Apache CamelPresented byJakub Korab - Approx 1 hour not incl Q&A The way that we build system integrations at present sees us spending far too much time on the same repetitive plumbing code required to talk to web services, messaging systems and data stores. At the same time, the tiered architectures that we commonly apply to these problems hide the brittleness of our integration logic and make it difficult to reason about failure conditions. In this session, you will be introduced to the tools that Apache Camel gives you out of the box that take away the burden of the plumbing, and free you up to build rock-solid integrations. We will discuss the impacts of common integration failures, and a set of Enterprise Integration Patterns (EIPs) that enables you to work around these to ensure consistency across the impacted systems. The evening will also be the official UK launch of the Apache Camel Developer's Cookbook, which contains over 100 recipes for working with Apache Camel - each backed by a suite of code examples written in both of its main DSLs. This talk will be given with the assistance of a Powerpoint presentation, with code examples drawn from the book. There will be some book giveaways and a brief Q&A session afterwards. Who should attend: Developers and architects working with systems integrations, or those who are about to get into the field. <b style="font-size : 16px">Bio: Jakub Korab is a specialist consultant working in open source integration and messaging, and co-author of the Apache Camel Developer's Cookbook. Over the last 3 years, he has helped over 40 clients to tackle complex integration problems across industries that have included finance, e-commerce, national road billing, shipping and space exploration. In the days before, he glued systems together in banks down in London's Canary Wharf. <b style="font-size : 16px">Agenda: 18:15: Doors open.18:30: Lightning talks from members of the LJC.18:45: Main presentation20:00:Networking and informal discussion at:The Old Ivy House Pub, 166 Goswell Road EC1V 7DTwww.oldivyhouse.co.uk Please Note: Nearest tube: BarbicanNearest Coffee Shop: Sun Coffee Shop, 55-63 Goswell Road, London, EC1V 7EN for if you arrive early After event refreshments at The Old Ivy are kindly being sponsored byAmeliant. Ameliant is a boutique consultancy, based in London, that delivers specialist technical consulting around a stack of integration products from the Apache Software Foundation; incorporating Camel, ActiveMQ, CXF and ServiceMix; as well as its commercially-backed variant - JBoss Fuse/Fabric8. Our services include the delivery of system and platform architectures; training and mentoring; and the development of proofs of concept and prototypes. Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here: http://blog.recworks.co.uk/ *Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: https://skillsmatter.com/meetups/6213-effective-system-integrations-with-apache-camel
PLEASE NOTE THIS IS A GLASSFISH USER GROUP EVENT NOT AN LJC EVENT. WE ARE USING THE LJC TO GENERATE PUBLICITY OF THE EVENT.<b style="font-size : 16px">To secure your place you have to register at the London GUG Registration Page:http://www.c2b2.co.uk/london_gug_march_2014 GlassFish User Group: 'GlassFish v4 Management, Automation and Monitoringby Adam Bien (Virtual Event) Presentation: GlassFish comes with useful management API, which allows you to manipulate the GlassFish application server's configuration, including its monitoring capabilities. In this session I will introduce you to GlassFish monitoring and management API and how I use them in my Java EE 7 projects. Speaker Bio: Consultant and author Adam Bien ( http://blog.adam-bien.com) is an Expert Group member for the Java EE 6 and 7, EJB 3.X, JAX-RS, CDI, and JPA 2.X JSRs. He has worked with Java technology since JDK 1.0 and with servlets/EJB 1.0 in several large-scale projects, and he is now an architect and developer for Java SE and Java EE projects. He has edited several books about JavaFX, J2EE, and Java EE, and he is the author of Real World Java EE PatternsRethinking Best Practices and Real World Java EE Night HacksDissecting the Business Tier (http://press.adam-bien.com). Adam is also a Java Champion and JavaOne 2011 Rock Star. To secure your place you have to register at the London GUG Registration Page:http://www.c2b2.co.uk/london_gug_march_2014 For more information please see this link:http://www.meetup.com/GlassFish-User-Group/events/165524182/ PLEASE NOTE THIS IS A GLASSFISH USER GROUP EVENT NOT AN LJC EVENT. WE ARE USING THE LJC TO GENERATE PUBLICITY OF THE EVENT.<b style="font-size : 16px">To secure your place you have to register at the London GUG Registration Page:http://www.c2b2.co.uk/london_gug_march_2014
*Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link:https://skillsmatter.com/meetups/6225-lock-free-queues Lock Free Queue Evolution: From 10M to 470M ops/sec Presented byNitsan Wakart - Approx 1 hour An in depth examination of the optimization process focused on the humble Single-Producer-Single-Consumer queue, starting from stock JDK queues and iterating/refining/optimizing to achieve extreme performance. On this journey we will cover: - Lock Free concurrency - Java Memory Model and Single Writers - CPU Cache Coherency - False Sharing and Object Memory Layout - Benchmarking pitfalls - And more... (time allowing) At the end of the talk a free drink will be offered to any finders of further optimizations ;-) A ppt presentation, some code will be reviewed. Who should attend: Anyone with a passion for concurrency, performance or both. Bio -Nitsan Wakart: "I'm a long time Java developer (since 2000), my experience in Betting and Finance industries focused on latency sensitive applications leading my career to Java performance engineering. I have been blogging about Java Performance/Concurrency from an empirical perspective for the last year and a bit (http://psy-lob-saw.blogspot.com). Currently working as a Performance Engineer/Architect for Azul." Agenda: Doors open at 18:15, followed by lightning talks from members of the LJC, refreshments and the main talk. Networking and informal discussion from 8pm at:The Old Ivy House Pub, 166 Goswell Road EC1V 7DTwww.oldivyhouse.co.uk Please Note: Nearest tube: BarbicanNearest Coffee Shop: Sun Coffee Shop, 55-63 Goswell Road, London, EC1V 7EN for if you arrive early Refreshments at Skills Matter are being kindly sponsored by Azul Systems (@AzulSystems) Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/ *Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: https://skillsmatter.com/meetups/6225-lock-free-queues
A hack day for any and all developers to come and collaborate on projects or simply discover new technologies together and enhance their skills. Bring your laptop and your desire to learn and have fun! Whether you want to build Java, Groovy, Scala, Force.com or Clojure apps, experiment with OpenJDK 8, get to grips with Git & Github, deploy apps with Heroku, try out one of the NoSQL databases like MongoDB or Neo4j or make some some robots dance, there are plenty of interesting things to work on. This month we are also co-hosting the Adopt Openjdk hackday. Come hack on the Java implementation that you use everyday! * Improved OpenJDK test coverage* OpenJDK Warnings cleanup* Small Bugs Fixes* The betterrev project If you're not familiar with the openjdk codebase there will be people there to help you get started, including some from IBM who work on OpenJDK professionally. Please note the Salesforce offices in London are now in the Heron Tower (where parts of Series 3 of Sherlock Homes were filmed) Based in the city of London near main transport links, its a great chance to discovering how to get the most out of new technology and practices. Working together helps developers tackle technical challenges and techniques that are common regardless of language (github pull requests, using NoSQL data source, managing deployment, etc). Working together also helps draw from each others experiences and get more done. www.hackthetower.co.uk Rough ScheduleYou can get into the offices from 9.30am onwards and have some breakfast and coffee, relax and take in the stunning view from the 26th floor of the Heron Tower. 10.30am - Get together and discuss application ideas & things you want to try out.10.45am - Split into groups and get going1pm - Lunch time (sandwiches, quiche, fruit and drinks provided, requests taken)1.30pm onwards - Keep on hacking until you have had enough or want to go to the pub! Sign upPlease include your your full name so I can organise a visitor pass forHeron Tower. In total, there is space for around 50 developers on the day. Food & drink will be provided, thanks to our hosts Salesforce.com Start building & deploying your apps in the cloud with a free developer environments fromdeveloper.salesforce.comandwww.heroku.com
*Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link:https://skillsmatter.com/meetups/6217-java-concurrent-animated Java Concurrent AnimatedPresented byVictor Grazi- Approx 1 hour + Q&A If a picture is worth a thousand words, an animation is worth a thousand pictures. This presentation consists of a series of interactive animations that visualize the functionality of the components in the java.util.concurrent library. Each animation features buttons that correspond to the method calls in that component. Each click of a button shows how the threads interact in real time. The animations are controlled by the actual Java concurrency components they are illustrating, with some surprising results! Threads are color coded according to the thread state. The presentation is not a Power Point or a coding demo; rather theres a self-executable jar that launches the animations. We will cover Executors, Phaser, all kinds of Locks and synchronizers, the new StampedLock, and Fork Join, as well as most of the other components in java.util.concurrent. Incidentally, the application is open-source, hosted on Source Forge, and can be downloaded at http://sourceforge.net/projects/javaconcurrenta. Who should attend: All Java developers from junior to advanced should enjoy this presentation. <b style="font-size : 16px">Bio: Victor Grazi is a Vice President at Nomura Securities and has been doing server side Java development, mostly in the securities industry since 1996. He is an Oracle Java Champion and a frequent presenter at technical conferences. Victor is also a Java editor at InfoQ Magazine, and has served on the Java Community Process Executive Committee where he won an Outstanding Spec Lead award for his work on JSR 354 Java Money and Currency. Agenda: Doors open at 18:15, followed by lightning talks from members of the LJC, refreshments and the main talk. Networking and informal discussion from 8pm at:The Old Ivy House Pub, 166 Goswell Road EC1V 7DTwww.oldivyhouse.co.uk Please Note: Nearest tube: BarbicanNearest Coffee Shop: Sun Coffee Shop, 55-63 Goswell Road, London, EC1V 7EN for if you arrive early Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here: http://blog.recworks.co.uk/ *Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link:https://skillsmatter.com/meetups/6217-java-concurrent-animated
Chuck Norris Doesn't Do DevOps... but Java Developers might benefit!Presented byDaniel Bryant - 45 mins approx. We all hear the term "DevOps" being thrown around on a daily basis, but what does it actually mean? With a little help from everyone's favourite 80's action hero, we'll undergo a whistle-stop tour of the philosophy, culture and tooling behind this buzzword, specifically aimed at Java developers. We'll also look at a real-world case study from Instant Access Technologies Ltd, and explore the key role that DevOps has played during a successful upgrade of the epoints customer loyalty platform to support increasing traffic. The core discussion will focus on the challenges encountered as we moved from a JVM-based monolithic app deployed into a data centre on a 'big bang' schedule, to a platform of loosely-coupled components, all being continuously deployed into the Cloud. We will conclude the talk by recommending a learning path for Java developers who are interested to learn more about DevOps. This will be a 45 min PPT presentation Who should attend: Anyone interested in learning more about 'DevOps' or how to improve the working relationship between Developers, QA and Ops, with the ultimate goal of deploying working software in an efficient and effective manner Bio: Daniel Bryant is a 'hands-on' CTO working for IAT Ltd, a small company that specialises in increasing customer loyalty. In his spare time Daniel contributes to open source projects, and has a passion for sharing his knowledge through blog posts, writing articles for well known technology websites and also presenting at international conferences, including JavaOne, Devoxx and FOSDEM. Daniel is a strong supporter of 'Agile' methodologies, and constantly seeks to improve the effectiveness of the teams he leads. He is embracing the 'DevOps' movement, and has had some success (and a lot of fun) experimenting with changing culture, processes and tooling alongside some amazing colleagues at IAT. Daniel is an Associate in the London Java Community (LJC), and he sits on the LJC JCP committee and assists in running LJC hack days, specifically for OpenJDK (the RI for Java). Agenda: 19:15: Doors open.19:15/30 approx: Main presentation20:00/20:15:Networking and informal discussion at: 'Hotel Ibis - London, Euston, St Pancras' - 3 Cardington Street, London, NW1 2LW Please Note: This event is being held at UCL in theUCL Medical Sciences Building - Room number: 131 A V Hill Lecture Theatre, Malet Place, WC1E 6BT.Please refer to this map:http://www.ucl.ac.uk/maps?locationID=89 We will head to 'Hotel Ibis - London, Euston, St Pancras' - 3 Cardington Street, London, NW1 2LW - for networking and further informal discussion after the event:http://www.ibishotel.com/gb/hotel-0921-ibis-london-euston-st-pancras/location.shtml Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here: http://blog.recworks.co.uk/
The London Developer Sessions This is a social gathering, which incorporates members of The London Java Community and Graduate Developer Communities. This is an informal social evening. Most of the evening will be spent having ad-hoc informal discussions in small groups. This event will be held at The Slug and Lettuce: 19/20 Hanover Street, Londonhttp://www.slugandlettuce.co.uk/hanover_street/. We have had some fantastic feedback from those who have attended the event at this venue before and will be holding this event in the same great location. The venuehas a nicely sized function room with its own private bar, there are some great offers on beer, there is free wi-fi and it's easy to move around and chat to lots of people. Most importantly it is a friendly and relaxed environment where developers can get together to chat and network. The event will kick off at 6:30 PM and usually goes on until around 11:30 with members coming and going at all times throughout the evening. We usually attract 50 70 members so it is a lively event in which members, both junior and senior, can connect in a relaxed atmosphere and set the development world to rights. Barry or another RecWorks team member will be onsite so if anyone is looking for free recruitment advice it's a great chance to come along for a chat. Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/
*Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link:https://skillsmatter.com/meetups/6298-aws-at-scale AWS at scalePresented byChris Alexander - Approx 1 hour 15 mins A look into using Amazon Web Services (AWS) at large scale.Infrastructure and platform as a service are rapidly growing as means to provide highly available, fault tolerant and hugely scalable applications. Take an in-depth look at services available on the AWS cloud, along with strategies, best practices, code examples and demos to allow you to successfully deploy, maintain and monitor mission critical applications on AWS. Designing your architecture and application with the cloud in mind. Little-known perks of EC2. Security and AWS cloud networking; data storage and distribution; messaging and monitoring. Handling large amounts of AWS resources and templating architecture. Tips and tricks. Presented along with code snippets and live demos. Who should attend: Anyone who is familiar with the concept of the cloud but wants to know more about what services are available. Those curious about the process of designing and maintaining an entirely cloud-based platform. Anyone who wishes to know about managing a complex and multi-tiered infrastructure for high availability and scale. Bio: Chris Alexander is a Developer Experience Engineer at import.io, and architect of their all-AWS cloud hosting. He has spent the last two years provisioning, monitoring, scaling and managing countless AWS resources while ensuring the platform has high availability and durability. Agenda: 18:15 Doors open18:30:Lightning talks from members of the LJC18:45: Main presentation20:00:Networking and informal discussion at:The Old Ivy House Pub, 166 Goswell Road EC1V 7DTwww.oldivyhouse.co.uk Please Note: Nearest tube: BarbicanNearest Coffee Shop: Sun Coffee Shop, 55-63 Goswell Road, London, EC1V 7EN for if you arrive early After event refreshments kindly sponsored by import.io -https://import.io/ Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out their first job video here:http://vimeo.com/88250563 *Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: https://skillsmatter.com/meetups/6298-aws-at-scale
hackthetower.co.ukis a hack day for any and all developers to come and collaborate on projects or simply discover new technologies together and enhance their skills. Bring your laptop and your desire to learn and have fun! Whether you want to build Java, Groovy, Scala, Force.com or Clojure apps, experiment with OpenJDK 8, get to grips with Git & Github, deploy apps with Heroku, try out one of the NoSQL databases like MongoDB or Neo4j or make some some robots dance, there are plenty of interesting things to work on. We are also co-hosting the Adopt Openjdk hackday. Come hack on the Java implementation that you use everyday! * Improved OpenJDK test coverage* OpenJDK Warnings cleanup* Small Bugs Fixes* The betterrev project If you're not familiar with the OpenJDKcodebase there will be people there to help you get started, including some from IBM who work on OpenJDK professionally. Rough Schedule You can get into the offices from around 9.30am onwards and have some breakfast and coffee, relax and take in the stunning view from the 26th floor of the Heron Tower. 10.30am - Get together and discuss application ideas & things you want to try out.10.45am - Split into groups and get going1pm - Lunch time (sandwiches, quiche, fruit and drinks provided, requests taken)1.30pm onwards - Keep on hacking until you have had enough or want to go to the pub! Sign upPlease include your your full name so I can organise a visitor pass forHeron Tower. Either update your name on your meetup.com profile for this community or provide your full name when prompted during RSVP. In total, there is space for around 100 developers on the day. Food & drink will be provided, thanks to our hosts Salesforce Sponsor message Start building & deploying your apps in the cloud with free developer environments fromdeveloper.salesforce.comandwww.heroku.com
**Please note this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place** 48 HR RAFFLE: 2 tickets toCon: The Microservices Conferenceon 27th - 28th November in London We have been generously donated two tickets for theCon: The Microservices Conferenceto raffle to two lucky LJC members. The winner will be picked at random early next week, and announced shortly afterwards. To enter simply RSVP to this event. Information from the organiser: Con: The Microservices Conference. Two full days solely dedicated to the topic of architecting, designing, building and deploying microservices. (27th 28th November) Microservices are a new approach to architecting applications. They are simple, single-purpose, lightweight architectural components that enable you to deliver software faster. The microservice architectural approach also aims to lead to software that thrives on change while at the same time being secure, performant, and stable. A packed programme of world-leading experts and industry practitioners is topped off by a park bench panel, where experts and community leaders come together on stage to thrash out new ideas, challenge common assumptions and to answer your burning questions on microservices. This presents the perfect opportunity to master the techniques necessary to make your move to microservices a success. Don't miss out on this fantastic opportunity to hear from leading experts, meet like-minded developers in an intimate venue and develop your skill set. More information is available at: https://skillsmatter.com/conferences/6312-mucon Attendees can register at: https://skillsmatter.com/events/6312-mucon/orders/new *This prize does not include travel/accommodation costs* Raffle organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/
*Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link:https://skillsmatter.com/meetups/6304-development-testing-what-why-and-how Development Testing: What, Why, and How Presented by Marat Boshernitsan (approx 1 hour) Development testing is a software development practice that brings quality assurance activities into the software development process. Development testing has the potential to reduce risk, time, and costs associated with software development, while improving architecture and maintainability of the resulting software artifacts. While development testing is frequently equated with unit testing, the spectrum of possible activities is much broader and ranges from code reviews and automated testing to static code analysis, metrics analysis, and code coverage analysis. In this talk we will take a broad look at development testing, examine how it fits in a software development process, and discuss some strategies for introducing development testing in both greenfield and legacy software projects. This talk will consist of a presentation (no coding) followed by an interactive discussion. Who should attend: This talk will be of interest to developers of all levels, architects, and development managers. Bio: Marat Boshernitsan is a software development researcher and practitioner who is curious about how humans create software. Marats work focuses on creating tools that help developers succeed in their daily quest to buildquality software.As a Senior Architect at Coverity, Marat has worked on code analysis and testing tools and is currentlyresponsible for leading new products from early ideation to initial release. Prior to Coverity, Marat served as a Director of Research at Agitar Software, where he worked on a wide range of software development problems related to automated testing of software. In the past Marat has also worked on intelligent code editors (at SunLabs) and on interactive code transformation tools (as part of his dissertation research). Marat holds a Ph.D. in Computer Science from the University of California, Berkeley. Agenda: 18:15 Doors open18:30:Lightning talks from members of the LJC18:45: Main presentation20:00:Networking and informal discussion at:The Old Ivy House Pub, 166 Goswell Road EC1V 7DTwww.oldivyhouse.co.uk Please Note: Nearest tube: BarbicanNearest Coffee Shop: Sun Coffee Shop, 55-63 Goswell Road, London, EC1V 7EN for if you arrive early Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out their first job video here:http://vimeo.com/88250563 *Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: https://skillsmatter.com/meetups/6304-development-testing-what-why-and-how
LJC Easter Un-Party! Comeone, come all and join us for the LJC Easter Un-Party. It will be on Thursday the 17th April at The Bakery. The refreshments are being sponsored by our good friends Atlassian. This will be something a little different to our usual LJC events and will include a combination of open mic style presentations and games. As with our first party we are going to be getting in the party mood with some blind-ignite talks If you are unfamiliar with the concept - in ignite talks each speaker gets 5 minutes, and must use 15 slides with each slide advancing automatically after 20 seconds, forcing speakers to get to the point fast! We're going to spice this up by giving the presenter little or no time to prepare for the talk. Meaning that a senior speaker will be tasked with giving an ignite presentation that they haven't seen before. They went down brilliantly at our first un-party, and will be even better this time around. We'll also be having an update on what's been happening with Adopt-a-JSR, the LJC Book club and all the other things that go on within the LJC. Please note: This event is being held at The Bakery, 25 City Road, EC1Y 1AA. The Bakery is situated in the heart of Tech City, a short walk from Old Street (Silicon) roundabout. Nearest tubes are Old Street (5 mins), Moorgate (5 mins), or Liverpool Street (15 mins) Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/
*Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link:https://skillsmatter.com/meetups/6295-what-s-new-in-wildfly-8-presented-by-arun-gupta What's new in WildFly 8?Presented by Arun Gupta WildFly 8 (ne JBoss Application Server) is Red Hat's open source JavaEE 7 compliant application server. It contains robust implementationsof WebSocket, Batch, JSON, Concurrency, JMS2, JAX-RS 2, CDI 1.1, andall Java EE 7 technologies. Undertow is the new cutting-edge webserver in WildFly 8 and is designed for maximum throughput andscalability, including environments with over a million connections.The number of ports is reduced used by multiplexing protocols overHTTP using HTTP Upgrade. Role Based Access Control support organizations with separatedmanagement responsibilities and restrictions. Roles representdifferent sets of permissions such as runtime operation execution,configuration areas that can read or written, and the ability to auditchanges and manage users. In addition a new restricted audit log canbe enabled including the ability to offload to a secure syslog server. WildFly also provides a "core" distribution that is ideal forframework authors that want to build their own application runtimeusing the powerful WildFly 8 architecture. NetBeans, IntelliJ, and Eclipse allow WildFly to be used fordevelopment, deployment, and debugging. This session will provide an overview of all these features. Who should attend: Everybody should attend :) Bio: Arun Gupta is Director of Developer Advocacy at Red Hat and focuses onJBoss Middleware. As a founding member of the Java EE team at SunMicrosystems, he spread the love for technology all around the world.At Oracle, he led a cross-functional team to drive the global launchof the Java EE 7 platform through strategy, planning, and execution ofcontent, marketing campaigns, and program. After authoring ~1400 blogsatblogs.oracle.com/arunguptaon different Java technologies, hecontinues to promote Red Hat technologies and products atblog.arungupta.me. Arun has extensive speaking experience in 37countries on myriad topics and is a JavaOne Rockstar. An author of abest-selling book, an avid runner, a globe trotter, a Java Champion,he is easily accessible at @arungupta. Please Note: Nearest tube: BarbicanNearest Coffee Shop: Sun Coffee Shop, 55-63 Goswell Road, London, EC1V 7EN for if you arrive early Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here: http://blog.recworks.co.uk/ *Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link:
**Please note this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place** 24 HR RAFFLE: 1 ticket to PrimeConf / Best of British / by Team Prime (13th Jun) We have been generously donated one ticket for the Best of British conferenceto raffle to one lucky LJC member. The winner will be picked at random at the end of this week, and announced shortly afterwards. To enter simply RSVP to this event. Information from the organiser: We want to celebrate the best of British digital technology talent ata one day conference at the Royal Institution, 13th June, and we'dlove to see you there! You can buy tickets to attend or support inother ways via our Kickstarter page:https://www.kickstarter.com/projects/teamprime/best-of-british Our conference is going to be a celebration of great Britishtechnology and technologists. Taking a countrywide approach we haveinvited guest speakers from around Britain to talk about what theyknow and what they do. We will also be live streaming the event soeveryone who wants to can watch regardless of location. Our format will be 30 min talks alternating with 10 minute talks tokeep everyone awake and engaged. CONFIRMED SPEAKERS SO FAR INCLUDE: Alice Taylor, MakieLabChris Thorpe, I Can MakeMatthew Somerville, mySociety (& many other great things)Mazz Mosley, freelance technologistIan Forrester, BBC R&DDan Fairs, SecondSync *just* been acquired by Twitter (woo, go Dan & the team!)Amy Mather, MiniGirlGeekDr Tom Crick, Senior Lecturer in Computing Science, CardiffMetropolitan UniversityPriya Prakash, Founder, Design for Social ChangeGordon Hollingworth, chief engineer @ Raspberry PiHerb Kim, Founder & CEO of Thinking Digital Limited Theyre going to be covering things such as: restarting computerscience in UK schools, experiments in inventing products for the earlymajority, 21st century knitting patterns and things which feel likemagazines from the 80s, growing a UK tech startup, 'Dating, Lies andAlgorithms', and so much more. We want to create a participatory event that allows those coming toask questions during the talks (without derailing the schedule) via aweb interface. We'll pick three questions for the speaker to answer atthe end of their talk and all the rest (assuming they're not silly orrude) will be answered by the speakers IAMA style on the conferencewebsite afterwards. Depending on the amount of money we raise, we've got plenty of otherinteractive experiences and fun planned for the day too. We want toput a smile on your face and blow your noodles with home-grownawesome. This conference will have a Code of Conduct in place(http://confcodeofconduct.com/) which will be in place on the sitewhen it goes up in the next week or two. By coming along to theconference you agree to being a decent and lovely human being, which Iknow all of you are :-) *This prize does not include travel/accommodation costs* Raffle organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/
*Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link:https://skillsmatter.com/meetups/6370-performance-and-predictability Performance and Predictability Presented by Richard Warburton (approx. 1 hour) These days fast code needs to operate in harmony with its environment. At the deepest level this means working well with hardware: RAM, disks and SSDs. A unifying theme is treating memory access patterns in a uniform and predictable way that is sympathetic to the underlying hardware. For example writing to and reading from RAM and Hard Disks can be significantly sped up by operating sequentially on the device, rather than randomly accessing the data. In this talk well cover why access patterns are important, what kind of speed gain you can get and how you can write simple high level code which works well with these kind of patterns. Who should attend: Developers with a craving for the low level/deep dive stuff. Bio: Richard is an empirical technologist and solver of deep-dive technical problems. Recently he has been working on data analytics for high performance computing and has written a book on Java 8 Lambdas for OReilly. He is a leader in the London Java Community and organised the Adopt-a-JSR programs for Java 8 and runs the Openjdk Hackdays. Richard is also a known conference speaker, having talked at JavaOne, JFokus, Devoxx, Geecon and JAX London. Previously he worked on static analysis problems and compilers and has obtained a PhD in Computer Science from The University of Warwick. Agenda: 18:15: Doors open18:30 approx:Main presentation19:45.20:00:Networking and informal discussion at:The Old Ivy House Pub, 166 Goswell Road EC1V 7DTwww.oldivyhouse.co.uk Please Note: Nearest tube: BarbicanNearest Coffee Shop: Sun Coffee Shop, 55-63 Goswell Road, London, EC1V 7EN for if you arrive early Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out their first job video here:http://vimeo.com/88250563 *Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: https://skillsmatter.com/meetups/6370-performance-and-predictability
PLEASE NOTE THIS IS A JBUG EVENT NOT AN LJC EVENT. WE ARE USING THE LJC TO GENERATE PUBLICITY OF THE EVENT. TO GUARANTEE A PLACE YOU MUST REGISTER YOUR DETAILS HERE:http://www.c2b2.co.uk/london_jbug_april_2014 JBUG EVENT: Introduction to PicketLink Presentation by Peter Skopek - a Software Engineer at Red Hat - will introduce PicketLink (www.picketlink.org) from Federation through to Identity Management. What is PicketLink?PicketLink is an umbrella project for security and identity management for Java Applications. PicketLink is an important project under the security offerings from JBoss.A Picket Fence is a secure system of pickets joined together via some type of links. Basically, the Pickets by themselves do not offer any security. But when they are brought together by linking them, they provide the necessary security.This project is that link for other security systems or systems to bring together or join, to finally provide the necessary secure system. Seewww.picketlink.orgfor more information SpeakerPeter Skopek is a software engineer at Red Hat at Brno office. He was graduated at Comenius University in Bratislava in 1994 and since then working on various engineering positions. He joined Red Hat in 2008 and currently working on PicketLink Project and its part included in JBoss Enterprise Application Platform. Peter can be contacted at [masked]. Agenda 18:00 - 18:15 - Coffee, Welcome and Networking 18:15 - 19:30 - 'Introduction to PicketLink' by Peter Skopek 19:30 - 20:00 - Lightning Talks & Problem Solving Sessions20:00 - 20:30 - Beer, Pizza and Networking PLEASE NOTE THIS IS A JBUG EVENT NOT AN LJC EVENT. WE ARE USING THE LJC TO GENERATE PUBLICITY OF THE EVENT. TO GUARANTEE A PLACE YOU MUST REGISTER YOUR DETAILS HERE:http://www.c2b2.co.uk/london_jbug_april_2014
*Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link:https://skillsmatter.com/meetups/6365-the-lmax-exchange-architecture-high-throughput-low-latency-and-plain-old-java#overview The LMAX Exchange architecture - high throughput, low latency and plain old Java Presented by Sam Adams (Approx. 1 hour) At LMAX Exchange we've built one of the fastest trading platforms around. We're well known for releasing The Disruptor - our high performance inter-thread messaging library, but that is only one small part of our stack. In this talk we will give an overview of our full architecture - how we've built a high throughput, low latency and scalable system that also provides high-availibility (active-active) backup systems and offsite DR - all in plain old Java. The talk will consist of a presentation covering the architecture behind LMAX Exchange. Who should attend: Relevant to all levels of experience - anyone who is interested in system architecture and software design. Bio: Sam currently leads one of the development teams at LMAX Exchange. He has had an eclectic career to date: variously modelling the metabolism of drugs and food additives, creating tools to manage and mine scientific data, and now building a high performance exchange at one of the UK's fastest growing Tech Companies. Agenda: 18:15 Doors open18:30:Lightning talks from members of the LJC18:45: Main presentation20:00:Networking and informal discussion at:The Old Ivy House Pub, 166 Goswell Road EC1V 7DTwww.oldivyhouse.co.uk Please Note: Nearest tube: BarbicanNearest Coffee Shop: Sun Coffee Shop, 55-63 Goswell Road, London, EC1V 7EN for if you arrive early Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/ *Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link:https://skillsmatter.com/meetups/6365-the-lmax-exchange-architecture-high-throughput-low-latency-and-plain-old-java#overview
*Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link:https://skillsmatter.com/meetups/6284-cloud-developer-s-dharma-redefining-done-for-cloud-applications Cloud Developers DHARMA: Redefining 'done' for Cloud applicationsPresented byDaniel Bryant (45 mins approx) Building applications for the IaaS Cloud is easy, right? "Sure, no problem - just lift and shift!" all the Cloud vendors shout in unison. However, the reality of building and deploying Cloud applications can often be different. This talk will introduce lessons learnt from the trenches during two years of designing and implementing cloud-based Java applications, which we have codified into our Cloud developers 'DHARMA' rules; Documented (just enough); Highly cohesive/loosely coupled (all the way down); Automated from code commit to cloud; Resource aware; Monitored thoroughly; and Antifragile. We will look at these lessons from both a theoretic and practical perspective using a real-world case study from Instant Access Technologies (IAT) Ltd. IAT recently evolved theirepoints.comcustomer loyalty platform from a monolithic Java application deployed into a data centre on a 'big bang' schedule, to a platform of loosely-coupled JVM-based components, all being continuously deployed into the AWS IaaS Cloud. Bio: Daniel Bryant is a 'hands-on' CTO working for IAT Ltd, a small company that specialises in increasing customer engagement and loyalty. In his spare time Daniel contributes to open source projects, and has a passion for sharing his knowledge through blog posts, writing articles for well known technology websites and also presenting at international conferences, including JavaOne, Devoxx and FOSDEM. He is an Associate in the London Java Community (LJC), sits on the LJC JCP committee, participate in the meet-a-mentor program and assists in running hack days (specifically for OpenJDK, the RI for Java). Daniel also enjoys experimenting with practical implementations of Artificial Intelligence, having gained a PhD in this field during his misspent youth as an academic.http://taidevcouk.wordpress.com/ Agenda: 18:15 Doors open18:30/45 approx: Main presentation19:45/20:00:Networking and informal discussion at:The Old Ivy House Pub, 166 Goswell Road EC1V 7DTwww.oldivyhouse.co.uk Please Note: Nearest tube: BarbicanNearest Coffee Shop: Sun Coffee Shop, 55-63 Goswell Road, London, EC1V 7EN for if you arrive early Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out their first job video here: http://vimeo.com/88250563 *Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: https://skillsmatter.com/meetups/6284-cloud-developer-s-dharma-redefining-done-for-cloud-applications
hackthetower.co.ukis a hack day for any and all developers to come and collaborate on projects or simply discover new technologies together and enhance their skills. Bring your laptop and your desire to learn and have fun! Whether you want to build Java, Groovy, Scala, Force.com or Clojure apps, experiment with OpenJDK 8, get to grips with Git & Github, deploy apps with Heroku, try out one of the NoSQL databases like MongoDB or Neo4j or make some some robots dance, there are plenty of interesting things to work on. We are also co-hosting the Adopt Openjdk hackday. Come hack on the Java implementation that you use everyday! * Improved OpenJDK test coverage* OpenJDK Warnings cleanup* Small Bugs Fixes* The betterrev project If you're not familiar with the OpenJDKcodebase there will be people there to help you get started, including some from IBM who work on OpenJDK professionally. Rough Schedule You can get into the offices from around 9.30am onwards and have some breakfast and coffee, relax and take in the stunning view from the 26th floor of the Heron Tower. 10.30am - Get together and discuss application ideas & things you want to try out.10.45am - Split into groups and get going1pm - Lunch time (sandwiches, quiche, fruit and drinks provided, requests taken)1.30pm onwards - Keep on hacking until you have had enough or want to go to the pub! Sign upPlease include your your full name so I can organise a visitor pass forHeron Tower. Either update your name on your meetup.com profile for this community or provide your full name when prompted during RSVP. In total, there is space for around 100 developers on the day. Food & drink will be provided, thanks to our hosts Salesforce Sponsor message Start building & deploying your apps in the cloud with free developer environments fromdeveloper.salesforce.comandwww.heroku.com
GS/LJC Joint Session - Gil Tene from Azul will presenting "How NOT to Measure Latency" Time is money. Understanding application responsiveness and latency is critical not only for delivering good application behavior but also for maintaining profitability and containing risk. But good characterization of bad data is useless. When measurements of response time present false or misleading latency information, even the best analysis can lead to wrong operational decisions and poor application experience. This talk discusses common pitfalls encountered in measuring and characterizing latency, while using concrete real-world examples. It demonstrates and discusses some false assumptions and measurement techniques that often lead to dramatically incorrect reporting and covers ways to do a sanity check and correct such situations. CTO and co-founder of Azul Systems Gil Tene will discuss the coordinated data omission problem, and ways to work around it, and will introduce and demonstrate how simple and recently open sourced tools can be used to improve and gain higher confidence in both latency measurement and reporting. *Delegates will need to bring a photo-id*
*Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link:https://skillsmatter.com/meetups/6392-lock-free-queue-evolution-ii-over-the-edge Lock Free Queue Evolution Continued!Presented by Nitsan Wakart (approx. 1 hour) Two months ago Nitsan Wakart gave theLock Free Queue Evolution talk to 120 LJC members at SkillMatters. While the talk got great feedback Nitsan was unable to fit the content to the time slot. This is the second part of that talk, though background will be covered and no prior knowledge is required. We will cover: * 3 Concurrent Queue implementations and their lineage/relationships * Cache misses and False Sharing * Controlling Java objects memory layout * Throughput and latency measurements on modern hardware * and more :) At the end of the talk a free drink will be offered to any finders of further optimizations ;-) ppt presentation, some code will be reviewed. Why should I attend: To gain an insight into lock free concurrency and performance improvements. Who shoud attend: Anyone with a passion for concurrency, performance or both. The subject is potentially suited to undergrads Bio - Nitsan Wakart: "I'm a long time Java developer (since 2000), my experience in Betting and Finance industries focused on latency sensitive applications leading my career to Java performance engineering. I have been blogging about Java Performance/Concurrency from an empirical perspective for the last year and a bit (http://psy-lob-saw.blogspot.com). Currently working as a Performance Engineer/Architect for Azul." Agenda: 18:15 Doors open18:30/45 approx: Main presentation19:45 approx:Networking and informal discussion at:The Old Ivy House Pub, 166 Goswell Road EC1V 7DTwww.oldivyhouse.co.uk Please Note: Nearest tube: BarbicanNearest Coffee Shop: Sun Coffee Shop, 55-63 Goswell Road, London, EC1V 7EN for if you arrive early Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here: http://blog.recworks.co.uk/ *Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link:https://skillsmatter.com/meetups/6392-lock-free-queue-evolution-ii-over-the-edge
The London Developer Sessions This is a social gathering, which incorporates members of The London Java Community and Graduate Developer Communities. This is an informal social evening. Most of the evening will be spent having ad-hoc informal discussions in small groups. This event will be held at The Slug and Lettuce: 19/20 Hanover Street, Londonhttp://www.slugandlettuce.co.uk/hanover_street/. We have had some fantastic feedback from those who have attended the event at this venue before and will be holding this event in the same great location. The venuehas a nicely sized function room with its own private bar, there are some great offers on beer, there is free wi-fi and it's easy to move around and chat to lots of people. Most importantly it is a friendly and relaxed environment where developers can get together to chat and network. The event will kick off at 6:30 PM and usually goes on until around 11:30 with members coming and going at all times throughout the evening. We usually attract 50 70 members so it is a lively event in which members, both junior and senior, can connect in a relaxed atmosphere and set the development world to rights. Barry or another RecWorks team member will be onsite so if anyone is looking for free recruitment advice it's a great chance to come along for a chat. Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/
PLEASE NOTE THIS IS A JBUG EVENT NOT AN LJC EVENT. WE ARE USING THE LJC TO GENERATE PUBLICITY OF THE EVENT. TO GUARANTEE A PLACE YOU MUST REGISTER YOUR DETAILS HERE:http://www.c2b2.co.uk/london_jbug_may_2014 JBUG EVENT:<b style="font-size : 16px">Hack on WildFly 8 Join London JBoss User Group for this interactive event and get your hands dirty with some WildFly 8 hacking! Our hosts Kabir Khan, Darran Lofthouse (JBoss/Red Hat) and Steve Millidge (C2B2) will explain how you can contribute to the WildFly project at many different levels, from properly reporting bugs in the forums and issue tracker, to actually being able to submit a pull request. Agenda During this interactive event you will have a chance to play with WildFly 8 and try some of the following: Find Jira you want to work on See how to check-out the code and set up your IDE Building WildFly walk-through - code organisation, jboss-modules etc. Debug something from a stack trace in a Jira issue to nail down the problems Try the testsuite Have some beer and pizza ...and more! Don't forget to bring a laptop! PLEASE NOTE THIS IS A JBUG EVENT NOT AN LJC EVENT. WE ARE USING THE LJC TO GENERATE PUBLICITY OF THE EVENT. TO GUARANTEE A PLACE YOU MUST REGISTER YOUR DETAILS HERE:http://www.c2b2.co.uk/london_jbug_may_2014
*Please note this is aLearning Connexions event in association with the London Java Community -it is essential that you confirm your place at this link:http://www.kweekweek.com/LearningConnexions/ff8ed0b333 Learning Connexions event in association with the London Java Community -The Architect with Juval Lowy iDesign's Juval Lowy presents an elightening talk on designing software for the modern Architect The Architect The software industry is in a deep crisis. Projects suffer from low quality; schedule slips and cost overrun are common. But this is hardly ordained, since there are plenty of examples of projects done on schedule, on budget, on quality in a repeatable manner. The key for solving the crisis is to practice software development as an engineering discipline, just like it is done in mechanical or electrical engineering. That is exactly the responsibility of the modern software architect, which must address software systems from an engineering standpoint, applying age-old engineering practices to software development. Armed with that crucial observation Juval will share his perspective on what is the key set of skills required of the architect, the role architects have to plan in order for the project to succeed, what it implies both to companies and to individual architects, and how should architects navigate and manage their own career path and personal growth. About Juval LowyJuval Lwy is the founder of IDesign and a master software architect specializing in system and project design. Juval has mentored hundreds of architects across the globe, sharing his insights, techniques, and breakthroughs, inarchitecture,project design, development process, and technology. Juval is Microsofts Regional Director for the Silicon Valley and had participated in the Microsoft internal strategic design reviews for C#, WCF and related technologies. Juval is a frequent speaker at the major international software developmentconferences. Juval published several bestsellers, and his latest book is the forthcoming 4th edition ofProgramming WCF Services(O'Reilly 2014). Juval published numerousarticles, regarding almost every aspect of modern software development and architecture. Microsoft recognized Juval as a Software Legend as one of the world's top experts and industry leaders. This event is bought to you by Learning Connexions and organised by the London Java Community & the Software Architect Mentorship Group. As a treat all attendees will recieve 10% off Juval's iDesign training classes in London. Room details: Roberts G08LT, Roberts Building, Malet Place, WC1E 7JE. Map is herehttp://www.ucl.ac.uk/maps?locationID=16 *Please note this is aLearning Connexions event in association with the London Java Community -it is essential that you confirm your place at this link:http://www.kweekweek.com/LearningConnexions/ff8ed0b333
PLEASE NOTE THIS IS A GLASSFISH USER GROUP EVENT NOT AN LJC EVENT. WE ARE USING THE LJC TO GENERATE PUBLICITY OF THE EVENT.Register at http://info.c2b2.co.uk/glassfish-user-group-with-reza-rahman GlassFish User Group: GlassFish Community Q&A with Reza Rahman (Webinar) To secure your place at this online event you have to register via http://info.c2b2.co.uk/glassfish-user-group-with-reza-rahman Join London GlassFish User Group on the 30thof May at 4:30pm BST / 11:30am EDT for this virtual Q&A session with Reza Rahman JavaEE & GlassFish Evangelist. During this interactive event you will have a chance to ask Reza any GlassFish and JEE related questions and get an early insight into the GlassFish Roadmap. To increase the chance of your questions being answered, please submit them with your registration! The event is hosted by C2B2 The Leading Independent Middleware Experts, London GUG Sponsors and Organisers. Agenda 4:30pm 4:35pm BST - Introduction by Steve Millidge, C2B2 Consulting 4:35pm 4:50pm BST - High Level Overview of the GlassFish Roadmap by Reza Rahman, Oracle 4:50pm 5:25pm BST - Questions from the Community 5:25pm 5:30pm BST - Summary & Wrap-up Speaker Reza Rahman is a Java EE/GlassFish evangelist at Oracle Corporation.He is the author of the popular book EJB 3 in Action. Reza is a frequent speaker at Java User Groups and conferences worldwide including JavaOne. He is an avid contributor to industry journals like JavaLobby/DZone and TheServerSide. Reza has been a member of the Java EE, EJB and JMS expert groups. He implemented the EJB container for the Resin open source Java EE application server.https://blogs.oracle.com/reza/ <b style="font-size : 16px">PLEASE NOTE THIS IS A GLASSFISH USER GROUP EVENT NOT AN LJC EVENT. WE ARE USING THE LJC TO GENERATE PUBLICITY OF THE EVENT.Register at http://info.c2b2.co.uk/glassfish-user-group-with-reza-rahman
**Please note this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place** 48 HR RAFFLE: 2 Free Passes for WSO2 Two Day User Conference & Pre-Conference Tutorials, 16th/18th June 2014 in Barcelona We have been generously donated two free passes for the WSO2 two day conference and pre-conference tutorials, on 16th-18th June in Barcelona, to raffle to two lucky LJC members. The winner will be picked at random at the start of next week, and announced shortly afterwards. To enter simply RSVP to this event and answer the questions. Information from the organiser: WSO2s popular user conference is back in the EU, this time in Barcelona, Spain, and will provide a platform for experts from Europes technology space to discuss the building blocks of a Connected Business. Who we are We are a global corporation that provides 100% open source middleware solutions under Apache license. We are the only company to provide a complete middleware stack including cloud computing solutions (on-premise, private cloud, and public cloud). Global organizations such as eBay and AAA rely on our software for their day-to-day operations. Here is what you get by being part of WSO2Con EU: The opportunity to explore the WSO2 Platform and how it paves the way to help you become a Connected Business A chance to listen to sessions on best practices, product case studies, and in-depth tutorials delivered by WSO2s own experts A comprehensive understanding of the reference architecture, use cases, and demos in Big Data, Cloud, Security, API, and more Real-life customer case studies from T Systems, Emoxa, CSI, and others Experience loads of fun with live entertainment and networking opportunities that will connect you with like-minded people from the industry Conference Agenda is available on http://eu14.wso2con.com/agenda/ *This prize does not include travel/accommodation costs* To enter simply RSVP to this event and answer the questions. Raffle organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here: http://blog.recworks.co.uk/
*Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link:https://skillsmatter.com/meetups/6335-an-introduction-to-designing-and-building-antifragile-microservices-with-java An Introduction to Desiging and Building Antifragile Microservices with JavaPresented by Russ Miles (approx. 45 mins) Microservice-based architectures hold a lot of promise in the fights against complexity and in enabling greater innovation and productivity. In this talk Russ how to design microservices for best effect using the Java language and the Java platform. This will be a presentation with code samples that demonstrate various design choices, and how to make those choices, making the most of the Java platform. Who should attend: Junior developers, experienced developers, developers with relevant experience.Anyone who is responsible for building and evolving software of any size and can appreciate the challenge of doing so. <b style="font-size : 16px">Bio: Russ Miles is Chief Scientist at Simplicity Itself. Russ is writing the book on Antifragile Software that features the design and implementation approach of microservices, https://leanpub.com/antifragilesoftware, and has launched a course on how to Build Antifragile Software with Microservices that he runs both privately and publicly in London and all around the world. In addition, and to make sure nothing is ever promoted from an ivory tower, Russ writes code every day in a variety of languages and platforms. In his past, Russ worked with SpringSource on building open source software for the Java platform and wrote three books for OReilly Media: Head First Software Development, Learning UML 2.0 and AspectJ Cookbook. Agenda: 18:15 Doors open18:30/45 approx: Main presentation19:30/1945:Networking and informal discussion at:The Old Ivy House Pub, 166 Goswell Road EC1V 7DT www.oldivyhouse.co.uk Please Note: Nearest tube: BarbicanNearest Coffee Shop: Sun Coffee Shop, 55-63 Goswell Road, London, EC1V 7EN for if you arrive early Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here: http://blog.recworks.co.uk/ *Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link:https://skillsmatter.com/meetups/6335-an-introduction-to-designing-and-building-antifragile-microservices-with-java
*Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link:https://skillsmatter.com/meetups/6314-write-java-apps-faster-using-saas-developer-environments Write Java Apps Faster Using SaaS Developer EnvironmentsPresented by Tyler Jewell (45 mins approx.) The Java community is filled with terrific solutions for enabling development of apps. Every Java developer has their choice of tools and the openness of the platform makes it accessible to anyone and extensible by everyone. But why then, is 99% of all development still done locally? While sales, marketing, customer service, support, finance, and infrastructure has steadily moved to the cloud over the past decade, Java development remains rooted on the desktop. Will it always be this way? In this session, we will discuss the evolution of remote development of Java applications and the emergence of SaaS Developer Environments. Often times called a cloud IDE, a SaaS environment can eliminate configuration, increase collaboration, and alleviate management concerns around consistency, compliance, and velocity. In essence, SaaS developer environments can make agile, more agile. We will present a beta of the Codenvy Cloud, a sister system tocodenvy.comthat has been in development since 2011. Oh, and pizza / beers / stickers included, too! Session Agenda 1) Why Cloud Development2) Types of SaaS Developer Environments3) Demo of Codenvy Cloud ** Remote workspace & project configuration ** CLI & Browser access ** Temporary, on-demand environments ** Shared development: editor, syntax analysis, collaborative coding ** Cloud build, dependency management, unit test (maven / ant / groovy) ** Cloud debug (runner, multi-process container, shell access) ** Project persistence (storage, image mgmt, privacy) ** Project creation (resource management, cloud bindings) ** Datasource management (cloud vs. local resources) ** Analytics (user dashboard, derived metrics, session tracking) ** Cloning (creating re-usable environments, embeddable, customizable) ** Plug-ins (extending browser and server-side cloud functionality) ** APIs (accounts, workspaces, projects, runners, builders, etc.) ** Offline and On-Premises Access (running proprietary clouds) i) Lift, grails, wicket, tapestry, GWT, JSF, Thymelaf, xtream, Vaadin, Shale, velocity, Play, Strutsii) JBoss, GlassFish, WebSphere, Oracle WebLogic, Jetty, Resin, Tomcat, Virgo, Geronimo, TomEEiii) JRuby, Groovy, Maximize, Kotlin, Jython, Scala, Ceylon, Clojure, Rhino. This talk will be presented usingPPT + demo + live coding. Who should attend: This is a fit for any developer: corporate developer, junior developers, ISVs who build tooling plug-ins. Bio: Tyler is CEO of Codenvy and a partner with Toba Capital managing investments in middleware and application development. He sits on the board of WSO2, Sauce Labs, and eXo Platform. He has investments in ZeroTurnaround, InfoQ, and AppHarbor and is an advisor for SD Elements, shiftMobility, and SourceGraph. He is the author of three books on Java, including OReilly's Java Web Services. Agenda: 18:15: Doors open.18:30: Manik Surtani presents 'CockroachDB: A transactional geo-replicated key-value store'18:50/20:00: Main presentation20:00:Networking and informal discussion at:The Old Ivy House Pub, 166 Goswell Road EC1V 7DTwww.oldivyhouse.co.uk Please Note: Nearest tube: BarbicanNearest Coffee Shop: Sun Coffee Shop, 55-63 Goswell Road, London, EC1V 7EN for if you arrive early Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/ *Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link:https://skillsmatter.com/meetups/6314-write-java-apps-faster-using-saas-developer-environments
Devoxx UK Party! The LJC is a sponsor and co-organiser of the Devoxx UK conference. Join us for the Devoxx UK Party on Thursday, June 12th. Theres a heap of cool stuff going on, with BOF sessions, an Exhibition of tech projects, and an IoT Hack. Or you could just come along, meet up with a heap of the main conference attendees, and have a beer, courtesy of our Friends at Atlassian. Chillout, have some fun, do some hacking, play with the exhibitor toys and take in the vibe. BOF Sessions: The Spring BOF Adopt OpenJDK: Looking behind the curtain of everyones favourite development platform Safety not guaranteed: sun.misc.Unsafe and the quest for safe alternatives Java EE BOF Join the Java Evolution Git Yourself a Workflow GlassFish is Here to Stay! Hack: Create the Internet of Things! AnIoT Hack, with IBM As humans, we combine 5 highly tuned senses to make sense of the world around us. With IoT, were beginning to translate this skill to machines.A sensor temperature can tell you why a room's getting hotter. But why is it getting hotter? Combinea motion sensor and a microphone and we start to understand more - is itnature, or is the room filling with people? In this hack event, IBM provide teams (3-6 people) with a kit of 30+ different sensors to see what information can be derived when combining basic data into something more meaningful. The challenge is to figure out the most innovative combination of sensors to make sense of the world around you. Your team can use as many of the 30 sensors as you want Sensors plug into Arduinos Software to get sensor data and display it on a web page is provided 2+ hours to create your project Each team has 3 minutes to present a prototype of their IoT setup Thewinning team will be selected by an award-winning panel of Devoxians. Prizes Arduino Kits and 37 sensors to keep you busy back home. Venue: The Business Design Centre,52 Upper Street,London.N1 0QH When you arrive at the venue you will need to follow the signs for Devoxx UK. Entry to the party is from 6pm onwards. If you want to attend any other aspects of the Devoxx UK conference you will need to purchase a ticket.
A special hack-day event in collaboration with Devoxx UKand a chance to collaborate with a wider range of developers. Special Guest James Ward (formerly of Typesafe) will be joining us at HackTheTower. hackthetower.co.ukis a hack day for any and all developers to come and collaborate on projects or simply discover new technologies together and enhance their skills. Bring your laptop and your desire to learn and have fun! Whether you want to build Java, Groovy, Scala, Force.com or Clojure apps, experiment with OpenJDK 8, get to grips with Git & Github, deploy apps with Heroku, try out one of the NoSQL databases like MongoDB or Neo4j or make some some robots dance, there are plenty of interesting things to work on. We are also co-hosting the Adopt Openjdk hackday. Come hack on the Java implementation that you use everyday! * Improved OpenJDK test coverage* OpenJDK Warnings cleanup* Small Bugs Fixes* The betterrev project If you're not familiar with the OpenJDKcodebase there will be people there to help you get started, including some from IBM who work on OpenJDK professionally. Rough Schedule You can get into the offices from around 9.30am onwards and have some breakfast and coffee, relax and take in the stunning view from the 26th floor of the Heron Tower. 10.30am - Get together and discuss application ideas & things you want to try out.10.45am - Split into groups and get going1pm - Lunch time (sandwiches, quiche, fruit and drinks provided, requests taken)1.30pm onwards - Keep on hacking until you have had enough or want to go to the pub! Sign upPlease include your your full name so I can organise a visitor pass forHeron Tower. Either update your name on your meetup.com profile for this community or provide your full name when prompted during RSVP. In total, there is space for around 100 developers on the day. Food & drink will be provided, thanks to our hosts Salesforce Sponsor message Start building & deploying your apps in the cloud with free developer environments fromdeveloper.salesforce.comandwww.heroku.com
Java Money and Currency API (JSR-354) Hackday Come and join us for a day exploring and hacking on the emerging implementation of the new Java Money and Currency API (JSR-354). We're fortunate to have the JSR specification lead Anatole Tresch from Credit Suisse flying into London for a day, and he is keen to guide everyone through the development of the API and get feedback on the design and usage of the API from real developers. The new JSR will provide a money and currency API for Java, targeted at all users of currencies and monetary amounts in Java. The API will provide support for standard ISO-4217 and custom currencies, and a representation of a monetary amount. It will support currency arithmetic, even across different currencies, and will support foreign currency exchange. Additionally, implementation details surrounding serialization and thread safety are to be considered. The hack day will focus around practical experimentation with the API (with the goal of providing feedback to Anatole), creating tests and exploring the Testing Compatibility Kit (TCK). The day will be relatively free-form, and Anatole will provide more details of outstanding work and development requests on the day. Resources: Project: https://java.net/projects/javamoney/pages/Home https://www.jcp.org/en/jsr/detail?id=354 Github: https://github.com/JavaMoney/jsr354-api Who should attend: Anyone who is keen to experiment with this emerging Java API. Financial development experience isn't specifically required, but we are especially keen to solicit feedback from developer's who have used similiar money and currency libraries in a financial context. Please note that attendees should be proficient in the usage of Java, and be comfortable using technologies such as git, Maven and an IDE of their choice. Attendees must bring their own laptop with a Java JDK installed (preferably Java 8), and also Oracle's Virtualbox. Please refer to the following links: http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/jdk8-downloads-2133151.html https://www.virtualbox.org/ Bio: Anatole Tresch - JSR-354 Spec Lead After his studies at the University of Zurich, Anatole worked several years as a Managing Partner and consultant within both, small and large scaled enterprise contexts. As of today Anatole works as a technical coordinator and architect within Credit Suisse and acts as Specification Lead for JSR 354 (Java Currency & Money) and should also drive Java Configuration. Agenda: 10:00 Arrive at OpenCredo offices (entry via side door - details to be confirmed) 10:30 Introduction by Daniel and Anatole 11:00 Start hacking! 13:00 Lunch 17:00 Wrap-up (although people are free to leave anytime during the day :-) ) OpenCredo specialise in helping companies deliver emerging technologies, and are generously providing the office space and snacks for the day: www.opencredo.com
**Please note this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place** 48HR RAFFLE: 2 tickets to GeekOut UK - 16th October - Shoreditch, London We have been generously donated two free tickets forGeekOut UK, a one day tech conference on 16th October in Shoreditch, London,to raffle to two lucky LJC members. The winners will be picked at random at the end of this week, and announced shortly afterwards. To enter simply RSVP to this event and answer the questions. Information from the organiser: ZeroTurnaround, in association with the LJC are running GeekOut UK, a one day tech conference, on Oct 16th in Shoreditch, London. The conference focuses on making developers faster, more productive and more aware. Our talks and sponsors are hand picked to give advice on processes and tools to make you more productive and effective. -9 great conference talks -3 community night sessions -Live vJUG session Speakers already confirmed include: Arun Gupta (Red Hat), Sven Peters (Atlassian), Holly Cummins (IBM), Martijn Verburg (JClarity), Simon Ritter (Oracle), Simon Maple (ZeroTurnaround), Josh Long (Pivotal), Chris Kelly(GitHub). *This prize does not include travel/accommodation costs* To enter simply RSVP to this event and answer the questions. Raffle organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/
*Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link:https://www.skillsmatter.com/meetups/6469-speaking-out-a-workshop-for-public-speaking-in-tech Speaking Out: A workshop for public speaking in techPresented by Richard Warburton and Martijn Verburg (aka"The Diabolical Developer") Public speaking is a great opportunity for people to raise their professional profile and employment opportunities. Unfortunately its also regularly identified as the activity which people fear the most. Its ok - we're here to help! If you've thought about giving talks at your workplace, local user group or even international developer conferences but just need a little support to get started then you should come along to this event. We're aiming to cover the basics of public speaking and help anyone looking to improve their public speaking. We're going to: * Cover the essentials to delivering a good talk * Help people get into the swing of standing up and speaking * Answer any questions people may have on speaking. Bio: Richard Warburton is an empirical technologist and solver of deep-dive technical problems. Recently he has written a book on Java 8 Lambdas for OReilly. Hes worked as a developer in many areas including Statistical Analytics, Static Analysis, Compilers and Network Protocols. He is a leader in the London Java Community and runs Openjdk Hackdays. Richard is also a known conference speaker, having talked at JavaOne, Devoxx, JFokus, Devoxx UK, Geecon, JAX London and Codemotion. He has obtained a PhD in Computer Science from The University of Warwick. Martijn Verburg (aka "The Diabolical Developer") is the co-founder & CEO of jClarity - a Java/JVM performance tools company. He is the co-leader for the LJC (aka London JUG), from which he runs the global Adopt OpenJDK and Adopt a JSR programmes. He's a regular speaker at conferences (FOSDEM, JavaOne, OSCON, Devoxx etc) and is the co-author of "The Well-Grounded Java Developer" (Manning publications). Agenda: 18:15: Doors open18:30: Start.. 1. Opening talk: 10 minutes to explain everything and get kicked off2. Hands-on Workshop/Speaking Experience: 30 minutes3. Q&A/Deep Dive/Finish off: 15 minutes. 20:00 approx.:Networking and informal discussion at:The Old Ivy House Pub, 166 Goswell Road EC1V 7DTwww.oldivyhouse.co.uk Please Note: Nearest tube: BarbicanNearest Coffee Shop: Sun Coffee Shop, 55-63 Goswell Road, London, EC1V 7EN for if you arrive early Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/ *Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link:https://www.skillsmatter.com/meetups/6469-speaking-out-a-workshop-for-public-speaking-in-tech
**Please note this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place. You must RSVP with your email address to enter** Modern Development with Java 8 - Free Spot Raffle Recently Raoul Urma, Jim Gough and Richard Warburton got together to launch a training course around Java 8, with particular focus on Lambda expressions and Functional programming. We all met through the London Java Community and will start running our course in London on 24th/25th September so we thought as a big thanks to the LJC for bringing us together we would raffle off a free place on the course. If you want more information about the course or want to signup yourself then you can email java8training@googlegroups.com or visit http://java8training.com. The way to signup to the raffle is to join this event and leave your email. We'll be announcing the winnerson 24th August!Best of luck - Richard, Jim & Raoul Java 8 Java 8 isn't your parents Java anymore. It is the largest update to Java in its history. Its a very exciting time. Some of the best ideas from functional programming are migrating their way into Java 8. This means easier to read, more flexible code that scales to many cores. At the end of this course, you will be ready to use Java 8 on your day job and be familiar with the cutting edge programming approaches which allow you to write more flexible and concise code. The Course There is a complete course description up at <strong style="font-size : 14px">http://java8training.com. Get up to date with the language changes introduced by lambda expressions in Java 8. Think in terms of functional programming and understand where this is an appropriate approach and where its not. Introduce changes to the collections library such as Streams and the higher order functions such as map and filter. Understand how to use them in order to solve simple data processing problems. <strong style="color : #888888 ; font-size : 14px">**Please note this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place. You must RSVP with your email address to enter**
PLEASE NOTE THIS IS A JBUG EVENT NOT AN LJC EVENT. WE ARE USING THE LJC TO GENERATE PUBLICITY OF THE EVENT. TO GUARANTEE A PLACE YOU MUST REGISTER YOUR DETAILS HERE: http://www.c2b2.co.uk/london_jbug_august_2014 JBUG EVENT: Rule the World - Practical Rules & BPM Development with Eric Schabell Join us for this hands-on workshop with Eric Schabell, JBoss Integration & BPM Technology Evangelist at Red Hat,@ericschabell With this workshop you get a chance to do just that, unlock thepower of business rules engines and business processing for yourdevelopment projects. We will take you through it all step-by-step,building rules, domain specific languages, using the wizards andeditors that the JBoss BRMS & BPM Suite provide to create your ownrules or process project.You have a choice in this workshop betweenan online web shop project or an HR employee rewards process project. Bring your laptop as this is a hands on experience that takes you from nothing to a fully working rules or process experience with JBoss open source software. No experience in rules or processes is required, you will be guided by the experienced speaker and go home ready to apply what you have learned in your own projects. SPEAKER Eric D. Schabell is the JBoss technology evangelist for Integration and BPM products at Red Hat. He is responsible for various outbound technical aspects of promoting JBoss Enterprise Middleware integration products and services, has traveled the world speaking at conferences, and is the author of The OpenShift Primer. He has been working within software development since 1998 for many different enterprises. Follow this blog at http://www.schabell.org. AGENDA 18:00 - 18:15 - Coffee, Welcome and Networking18:15 - 20:15- Rule the World - Practical Rules & BPM Development workshop with Eric Schabell20:15-20:30 - Q&A and Wrap up Beers & Pizza will arrive at around 7:30 pm :) PLEASE NOTE THIS IS A JBUG EVENT NOT AN LJC EVENT. WE ARE USING THE LJC TO GENERATE PUBLICITY OF THE EVENT. TO GUARANTEE A PLACE YOU MUST REGISTER YOUR DETAILS HERE: http://www.c2b2.co.uk/london_jbug_august_2014
About Lambda Behave Lambda Behave is a modern testing and behavioural specification framework for Java 8. If you're a Java developer and you've seen the fluent, modern specification frameworks available in other programming languages such as spock or jasmine then Lambda Behave is for you. Its goal is to make testing a more pleasant experience than it currently is with junit. Website: http://richardwarburton.github.io/lambda-behave/ Hackday Details In this hackday we'll be learning about and contributing to lambda-behave. The activities will include: 1. Do a few short katas to introduce the lambda behave API. 2. Help with trying out the lambda-behave API on personal projects. 3. Contribute to improving and enhancing the project. You should bring a laptop with Java 8 installed on. Hackday Agenda 10:00 Arrive at OpenCredo offices (entry via side door - details to be confirmed) 10:30 Introduction to Lambda Behave 11:00 Start hacking! 13:00 Lunch 17:00 Wrap-up (although people are free to leave anytime during the day :-) OpenCredo specialise in helping companies deliver emerging technologies, and are generously providing the office space and snacks for the day: www.opencredo.com
*Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link:https://www.skillsmatter.com/meetups/6495-professional-software-development-and-the-five-shouts-of-good-programmers Straight from the LJC: Thoughts and Shouts of Professional Software Developers -Talk 1: "Professional Software Development: Thinking Fast and Slow" Presented by Daniel Bryant - Approx. 20 mins -Talk 2: "The Five Shouts of Good Programmers" Presented byAbraham Marn Prez - Approx. 40 mins Talk 1 - "Professional Software Development: Thinking Fast and Slow" - Daniel Bryant In the international bestseller 'Thinking, Fast and Slow', Daniel Kahneman explains how we as human beings think and reason, and perhaps surprisingly how our thought processes are often fundamentally flawed and biased. This talk briefly explores the ideas presented in the book in the context of professional software development. As software developers we all like to think that we are highly logical, and make only rational choices, but after reading the book I'm not so sure. Here I'll share my thinking on thinking. The primary advice I will be sharing is how to make better decisions in our day-to-day work as software developers (or at least think about thinking). This talk will be presented with slides, with a strict limit on the number of cat pictures included... Who should attend: Everyone! Also suitable for graduates (Note from the speaker: I've learned a lot about professionalism throughout my career, but being exposed to the core concepts and ideas about decision-making early in your career could be even better!) Bio: Daniel Bryant is a Principal Consultant for OpenCredo, a software consultancy and delivery company dedicated to helping our clients deliver better software faster. Daniel is currently focusing on enabling agility within technical organisations, and a big aspect of this is helping developers make better decisions in their day-to-day work. In his spare time Daniel contributes to open source projects, and has a passion for sharing his knowledge through blog posts, writing articles for technology websites, such as Java Code Geeks and DZone, and also presenting at international conferences, including JavaOne, Devoxx and FOSDEM. He is also an Associate in the London Java Community (LJC), sits on the LJC JCP committee, and hacks on the OpenJDK. Talk 2 - "The Five Shouts of Good Programmers" Presented byAbraham Marn Prez While not being Java-specific, the talk will discuss five core behaviours for programmers that help push back the sort of pressure that tends to derail projects in the long-term. These behaviours are expressed in the form of short, powerful shouts. Target audience: Have you ever felt that something about the way projects are managed is not quite right but you didn't know what to do about it? Do you ever feel your product would be so much better if only developers' views were taken into account? If so, then this talk is for you. More seasoned professionals may already know these core behaviour. However, they may still benefit from a new way to present them. Bio: Abraham graduated in Computer Science in 2008 in Valencia, Spain, although he started working before finishing his degree. Abraham has worked in the IT industry for companies as small as 15 employees and as big as 250,000. In all of them, although to different degrees, Abraham witnessed different means of pressure to compromise technical core values for the sake of short-term goals. Seeing how companies tend to jeopardy their own projects by not looking at the long-term effects of their decision is what made him think about the 5 shouts. An addition to this, Abraham runs two blogs (one in English, one in Spanish) and is an associate of the LJC. Agenda: 18:15: Doors open.18:30: Lightning talks from members of the LJC - TBC18:45: Talk 1 - "Professional Software Development: Thinking Fast and Slow" - Daniel Bryant19:10:Talk 2 - "The Five Shouts of Good Programmers" Presented byAbraham Marn Prez20:00:Networking and informal discussion at:The Old Ivy House Pub, 166 Goswell Road EC1V 7DTwww.oldivyhouse.co.uk Please Note: Nearest tube: BarbicanNearest Coffee Shop: Sun Coffee Shop, 55-63 Goswell Road, London, EC1V 7EN for if you arrive early Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/ *Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link:https://www.skillsmatter.com/meetups/6495-professional-software-development-and-the-five-shouts-of-good-programmers
*Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link:https://www.skillsmatter.com/meetups/6496-lambda-behave-tests-need-love-too Straight from the LJC: Lambda Behave & Tests Need love too -Talk 1:"Lambda Behave: A modern testing and behavioural specification framework for Java 8" Presented by Richard Warburton. Approx 30 mins. -Talk 2: "Tests Need Love Too: Common Reasons Unit Tests Are Brittle" Presented by Colin Vipurs. Approx 40 mins. More details: Talk 1 - "Lambda Behave: A modern testing and behavioural specification framework for Java 8" Presented by Richard Warburton Are you a Java developer and you've seen the fluent and modern specification frameworks available in other programming languages such as Spock or jasmine and wondering why we can't have the same thing? Then Lambda Behave is made for you! It uses numerous Java 8 features in order to enable cleaner and more readable tests and specifications. This quickie will introduce the framework, explain why you would want to use it over JUnit and cover some of its cool features, including: How to write fluent and clean specifications in your domain language How to write data driven specifications How to integrate these into your build tool or IDE How IDE usage can influence library design for the better http://richardwarburton.github.io/lambda-behave Who should attend: Anyone with experience of testing Bio: Richard is an empirical technologist and solver of deep-dive technical problems. Recently he has written a book on Java 8 Lambdas for OReilly. Hes worked as a developer in many areas including Statistical Analytics, Static Analysis, Compilers and Network Protocols. He is a leader in the London Java Community and runs Openjdk Hackdays. Richard is also a known conference speaker, having talked at JavaOne, Devoxx, JFokus, Devoxx UK, Geecon, JAX London and Codemotion. He has obtained a PhD in Computer Science from The University of Warwick. Talk 2 - "Tests Need Love Too: Common Reasons Unit Tests Are Brittle" Presented by Colin Vipurs Any developer who cares about software quality should be committed to writing unit tests. Used well it can be a vital tool in every developers toolbox, but unfortunately the theory and practice dont always match up. Easily-made mistakes can lead to brittle, unmaintainable and write-only tests that not only become difficult to work on, but can lead to a hatred of unit testing in general. Presented here are examples of these mistakes with code samples, why youre making them and how to avoid them in future. Powerpoint presentation with code samples. Who should attend: Any developer who has done unit testing Bio: Colin is a battle-hardened developer with 16 years commercial experience, most of which has been spent working with Java. He released his first production bug in 1998 and has been passionate about automated testing ever since, something which when pushed, he may offer an opinion about. When not coding he can occasionally be found enjoying a beer and ranting about software craftmanship. Agenda: 18:15: Doors open.18:30: Lightning talks from members of the LJC - TBC18:45: Talk 1 -"Lambda Behave: A modern testing and behavioural specification framework for Java 8" - Richard Warburton19:10:Talk 2 - "Tests Need Love Too: Common Reasons Unit Tests Are Brittle" - Colin Vipurs20:00:Networking and informal discussion at:The Old Ivy House Pub, 166 Goswell Road EC1V 7DTwww.oldivyhouse.co.uk Please Note: Nearest tube: BarbicanNearest Coffee Shop: Sun Coffee Shop, 55-63 Goswell Road, London, EC1V 7EN for if you arrive early Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/ *Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link:https://www.skillsmatter.com/meetups/6496-lambda-behave-tests-need-love-too
*Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link:https://www.skillsmatter.com/meetups/6502-the-java-8-roadshow The Java 8 Roadshow -Lightning Talk - "Java: What's the Buzz" - Presented by Tori Wieldt (Approx. 15 mins)-Talk 1 - "Java 8: Create The Future"-Presented by Simon Ritter (Approx. 45 mins)-Talk 2 - "Pragmatic Functional Refactoring with Java 8" - Presented by Richard Warburton andRaoul-Gabriel Urma (Approx. 45 mins) "Java 8: Create The Future" A presentation to talk about the great new features covering language, libraries and virtual machine in Java 8, focusing on the power of Lambdas and Streams to enable a functional style of programming in Java. There will be plenty of example code. Who Should Attend: Any developers who want to find out more about Java SE 8 Bio: Simon Ritter manages the Java Technology Evangelist team at Oracle Corporation. Simon has been in the IT business since 1984 and holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Physics from Brunel University in the U.K. Originally working in the area of UNIX development for AT&T UNIX System Labs and then Novell, Simon moved to Sun in 1996. At this time he started working with Java technology and has spent time working both in Java development and consultancy. Having moved to Oracle as part of the Sun acquisition he now focuses on the core Java platform, Java for client applications and embedded Java. He also continues to develop demonstrations that push the boundaries of Java for applications like gestural interfaces, embedded robot controllers and in-car systems. Follow him on Twitter, @speakjava, and his blog at blogs.oracle.com/speakjava. "Pragmatic Functional Refactoring with Java 8" You may be hearing a lot of buzz around functional programming. For example, Java 8 recently introduced new features (lambda expressions and method references) and APIs (Streams, Optional and CompletableFutures) inspired from functional ideas such as first-class functions, composition and immutability. However, what does this mean for my existing codebase? In this talk we show how you can refactor your traditional object-oriented Java to using FP features and APIs from Java 8 in a beneficial manner. We will discuss: - How to adapt to requirement changes using first-class functions - How you can enhance code reusability using currying - How you can make your code more robust by favouring immutability over mutability - How you can design better APIs and reduce unintended null pointer exceptions using an optional data type" Who Should Attend: The presentation should be of benefit to any developer with a Java background. Bios: Richard Warburton is an empirical technologist and solver of deep-dive technical problems. Recently he has written a book on Java 8 Lambdas for OReilly. Hes worked as a developer in many areas including Statistical Analytics, Static Analysis, Compilers and Networking. He is a leader in the London Java Community and runs OpenJDK Hackdays. Richard is also a known conference speaker, having talked at JavaOne, Devoxx, JFokus, DevoxxUK, Geecon, JAX London and Codemotion. He has obtained a PhD in Computer Science from The University of Warwick. Raoul-Gabriel Urma is a PhD candidate in Computer Science at the University of Cambridge. His research centers on programming languages and software engineering. He is coauthor of the book Java 8 in Action: lambdas, streams, and functional-style programming published by Manning. In addition, Raoul has written over 10 peer-reviewed articles and given over 20 technical talks at international conferences. He has collaborated with large companies such as Google, eBay, Oracle, and Goldman Sachs, as well as worked for several startup projects. Raoul is also a fellow of the Royal Society of Arts. Agenda: 18:15: Doors open.18:30: Lightning talk from Tori Wieldt -"Java: What's the Buzz"18:45: Talk 1 -"Come and learn about the great new features in Java 8!"-Presented by Simon Ritter19:10:Talk 2 -"Pragmatic Functional Refactoring with Java 8" - Presented by Richard Warburton andRaoul-Gabriel Urma20:00:Networking and informal discussion at:The Old Ivy House Pub, 166 Goswell Road EC1V 7DTwww.oldivyhouse.co.uk Please Note: Nearest tube: BarbicanNearest Coffee Shop: Sun Coffee Shop, 55-63 Goswell Road, London, EC1V 7EN for if you arrive early Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/ *Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link:https://www.skillsmatter.com/meetups/6502-the-java-8-roadshow
**Please note this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place** 48HR RAFFLE: 1x Ticket to Code Mesh Conference London - 3-5 November We have been generously donated a free ticket for Code Mesh Conference London (3-5 November)to raffle to a lucky LJC member. The winner will be picked at random at the start of next week, and announced shortly afterwards. To enter simply RSVP to this event and answer the questions. Information from the organiser: Meet the best minds in functional programming and alternative tech! Among over 50 speakers: Founder of Ruby Central Chad Fowler, Data-Centric Functional Programmer and O'Reilly Author Dean Whampler, originator of Behaviour-Driven Development (BDD) and Deliberate Discovery Dan North, Chief Architect at Typesafe Viktor Klang, Co-creator of Erlang Robert Virding, Creator of Typed Clojure Ambrose Bonnaire-Sergeant, Creator of F# Don Syme, Creator of the Catnip IDE Bodil Stokke, Developer Advocate for Google+ Ian Barber, Scala Hacker Jessica Kerr, Cisco Principal Engineer Claes Wikstrm and many more. http://www.codemesh.io/ Well talk about real-life applications of Clojure, Erlang, Scala, Haskell, F#, Akka and more in fields such as Finance & Banking, Gaming & New Media, Next Generation Databases, Infrastructure & Distribution, Scalability & Multicore or Next Generation Analytics. Early Bird is open until 9 October. Use the code LJC10 for an additional 10% discount. *This prize does not include travel/accommodation costs* To enter simply RSVP to this event and answer the questions. Raffle organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/
**Please note this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place** 48HR RAFFLE: 5x JAX London Tickets - 13th to 15th October We have been generously donated 5 free tickets forJAX London (13th-15th October)to raffle to 5 lucky LJC members. The winner will be picked at random at the end of next week, and announced shortly afterwards. To enter simply RSVP to this event and answer the questions. Information from the organiser: JAX London is returning from 13th 15th October at the Business Design Centre, Islington, bringing Java, JVM and Enterprise Professionals together for our technology and methodology focused event. JAX London, the place where the most respected thinkers and the brightest minds of the tech community meet, offers a deep dive for the modern developer and architect aiming to transform open technologies into valuable business solutions. We always focus on the big picture: Java core, architecture, and web technologies and professional insight into the latest methodologies and best practices. JAX London offers a unique experience featuring some of the most highly regarded and sought after speakers, presenting the latest trends and developments, in a professional and relaxed atmosphere. Learn how to increase your productivity, identify which technologies and practices suit your specific requirements and learn about new approaches. Monday is a pre-conference workshop and tutorial day. The half-day and full-day workshops give you the chance to get some hands-on experience and exchange ideas with the experts. On Tuesday and Wednesday see the conference proper taking place with more than 60 technical sessions, keynotes, the JAX Expo, Big Data Con, community events and more. For more information about the conference and speakers check outwww.jaxlondon.com Please use the following code for a 10% discount on tickets -LJC10 This prize does not include travel/accommodation costs. To enter simply RSVP to this event and answer the questions. Raffle organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/
**Please note this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place** 48HR RAFFLE: Pair of Tickets - Span London 2014 - Oct 28th - Barbican Centre We have been generously donated a pair of free tickets for Span London 2014 (28th October at Barbican Centre, London)to raffle to 1 lucky LJC member (Bring a friend!). The winner will be picked at random at the start of next week, and announced shortly afterwards. To enter simply RSVP to this event and answer the questions. Information from the organiser: Span is a one day single track developer conference about building scalable systems to be held at the Barbican on October 28th. Topics include: * Reactive programming on the JVM, by Stephane Maldini of Reactor and Pivotal * Building scalable clients as part of a distributed system, on the JVM * Stream processing with Apache Samza * Apache Spark data processing *Scala development (TBC) * Safeguarding data in cloud environments * Erlang, by its co-creator Robert Virding * NoSQL, data analytics and more. If you attend, you can also join in by giving a lightning talk Register for your 20% discounted ticket:https://ti.to/span/london-2014?discount_code=ljc Find out more about the conference:http://spanconf.io This prize does not include travel/accommodation costs. To enter simply RSVP to this event and answer the questions. Raffle organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/
hackthetower.co.ukis a hack day for any and all developers to come and collaborate on projects or discover new technologies together and enhance their skills. Bring your laptop and your desire to learn & have fun! Whether you want to build Java, Groovy, Scala, Force.com or Clojure apps, experiment with OpenJDK 8, get to grips with Git & Github, deploy apps with Heroku, try out one of the NoSQL databases like MongoDB or Neo4j or make some some robots dance, there are plenty of interesting things to work on. We are also co-hosting the Adopt Openjdk hackday. Come hack on the Java implementation that you use everyday! * Improved OpenJDK test coverage* OpenJDK Warnings cleanup* Small Bugs Fixes* The betterrev project If you're not familiar with the OpenJDKcodebase there will be people there to help you get started, including some from IBM who work on OpenJDK professionally. Rough Schedule You can get into the offices from around 9.30am onwards and have some breakfast and coffee, relax and take in the stunning view from the 26th & 27th floors of the Salesforce Tower (formerly known as the Heron Tower). 10.30am - Get together and discuss application ideas & things you want to try out.10.45am - Split into groups and get going1pm - Lunch time (sandwiches, quiche, fruit and drinks provided, requests taken)1.30pm onwards - Keep on hacking until you have had enough or want to go to the pub! Sign upPlease include your your full name so I can organise a visitor pass forSalesforce Tower, otherwise your entry to the event may be delayed. Either update your name on your meetup.com profile for this community or provide your full name when prompted during RSVP. In total, there is space for around 150 developers on the day. Food & drink will be provided, thanks to our hosts Salesforce Sponsor message Start building & deploying your apps in the cloud with free developer environments fromdeveloper.salesforce.comandwww.heroku.com
Two Talks -"Leaning on the two Ts" Mani Sarkar, & "Tests need love too" Colin Vipurs Talk 1 - Leaning on Tools & Techniques to Improve Code Quality - Presented by Mani Sarkar (45 mins approx.) Attendees of this talk will learn about my experience when learning to use static analysis tools (i.e. SonarQube) and some of its features. In addition also find out how it can be used to improve your code quality and personal practice. A number of tools will also be mentioned and how to include them in your practise. Powerpoint-like presentation sharing information from a perspective higher than just the use of tools, although no runtime implementation or live coding will be performed. Live examples might be shown depending on time constraints. Who Should Attend: The presentation is definitely for intermediate and experienced Java developers, but also beginner developers who would like to know more about code quality and tools that can be of help. Also for those already using static analysis or other tools in anger or just casually. Especially those who would like to know how to use tools as a medium to learn from. Bio: Mani Sarkar is a passionate Java/JVM developer currently living and working in London, an LJC Associate, and an LJC Advocate to the @adoptopenjdk & @adoptajsr programs, JCP Member, OpenJDK contributor (submitted a number of patches), active member of a number of developer communities, speaker, blogger, and tweets interesting topics. He sees himself working in the areas of core Java, JVM, JDK, Hotspot, Nashorn and Performance Tuning. In his free time he also works on open-source projects that can be found on his personal github and bitbucket accounts. He is also an advocate of software craftsmanship principles like BDD and TDD, practices like pair-programming & collaborations - fervent user of SonarQube, analysing code quality on a regular basis. In one of his previous jobs he has been dabbling with concepts like Machine Learning and Data Analytics. A regular at many talks, conferences and hands-on-workshops in and around the UK and other parts of Europe. Talk 2 -"Tests Need Love Too: Common Reasons Unit Tests Are Brittle" - Presented by Colin Vipurs (45 mins approx) Any developer who cares about software quality should be committed to writing unit tests. Used well it can be a vital tool in every developers toolbox, but unfortunately the theory and practice dont always match up. Easily-made mistakes can lead to brittle, unmaintainable and write-only tests that not only become difficult to work on, but can lead to a hatred of unit testing in general. Presented here are examples of these mistakes with code samples, why youre making them and how to avoid them in future. Powerpoint presentation with code samples. Who should attend: Any developer who has done unit testing Bio: Colin is a battle-hardened developer with 16 years commercial experience, most of which has been spent working with Java. He released his first production bug in 1998 and has been passionate about automated testing ever since, something which when pushed, he may offer an opinion about. When not coding he can occasionally be found enjoying a beer and ranting about software craftmanship. Agenda: 18:30: Doors open.18:45: Talk 119:30: Talk 220:15:Networking and informal discussion at: 'Hotel Ibis - London, Euston, St Pancras' - 3 Cardington Street, London, NW1 2LW Please Note: This event will be held in the Bedford Way lecture theatre -LG04LT - which is at UCL, 26 Bedford Way, WC1H 0DS. Please refer to this map:http://www.ucl.ac.uk/maps?locationID=133 We will head to 'Hotel Ibis - London, Euston, St Pancras' - 3 Cardington Street, London, NW1 2LW - for networking and further informal discussion after the event:http://www.ibishotel.com/gb/hotel-0921-ibis-london-euston-st-pancras/location.shtml Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/
Apache Cassandra for Java Developers - Why, What & How - Presented by Johnny Miller (Approx. 2 hours) Java developers interested in learning about Apache Cassandra and how to use it. Attendees will be introduced to some of its most popular use cases and given an architectural overview of Cassandra. They will also be show how to model their data on Cassandra and how to use the Java driver. The presentation will be given with a mix of slides and code examples. Some live coding may be used also. Topics that will be covered will include: - Why use Cassandra? - Top use cases - What is Cassandra? - An introduction to the architecture of Cassandra - Core concepts - Deployment considerations - How to use Apache Cassandra - Introduction to the Cassandra Query Language (CQL) - Data modelling on Cassandra - Developing Java applications using Cassandra - The Native Driver and Protocol - Best Practices - Tools and frameworks - A demonstration of Apache Spark integration and Cassandra Who Should Attend: Anybody interested in building Java applications using Apache Cassandra Bio: Johnny Miller, is an experienced developer, architect, team lead and agile coach with a history of working at Sky, AOL Broadband and Alcatel-Lucent. Johnny has architected and delivered a number of enterprise platforms using Cassandra as a key component for achieving high availability and efficient scaling. As a result of Johnny's belief in the performance of Cassandra this lead him to join DataStax and drive solutions for Cassandra Big Data. @cyanmiller @datastaxeu datastax.com Agenda: 18:15: Doors open.18:30:Main presentation20:45:Networking and informal discussion at: 'Hotel Ibis - London, Euston, St Pancras' - 3 Cardington Street, London, NW1 2LW Please Note: This event will be held in theWilkins Gustav Tuck Lecture Theatre.Please enter through UCL front entrance on Gower St. Map is here http://www.ucl.ac.uk/maps?locationID=83 We will head to 'Hotel Ibis - London, Euston, St Pancras' - 3 Cardington Street, London, NW1 2LW - for networking and further informal discussion after the event:http://www.ibishotel.com/gb/hotel-0921-ibis-london-euston-st-pancras/location.shtml Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/
The JAX London Community Night is a beer, wine and code fuelled taster of the main conference, in conjunction with the London Java Community. If you dont have the time to attend the full conference or cant get a ticket, come on down to community night for an evening packed with activities. Youll get a flavour of the main event and the chance to meet up with other coders from UK, European and Worldwide Java, JVM and Big Data development scenes. Program:18:30 Doors18:45 Drinks20:00 - 21:00: Greg Young (http://goodenoughsoftware.net/): Event Sourcing Event Sourcing has been becoming more and more popular over the lastfew years. Greg has been talking, teaching, and innovating in theEvent Sourcing space since 2006. This talk will look in depth at whatEvent Sourcing is, when it may be valuable (more importantly when itsnot), and how problems can change when looked at through a differentlens. There are many trade offs, misconceptions, and of course FUDassociated around Event Sourcing, hopefully we can sort them all out. Sign Up today, because seats are limited! Please RSVP at this link:https://www.eventbrite.co.uk/e/jax-london-community-night-2014-tickets-13550821873?ref=estw
Note: To RSVP for the free evening community event please register herevia eventbrite: http://uk.geekout.ee/registration (Select Community night ticket) GeekOut UK is a developer productivity conference in Shoreditch, London, focused on tools, processes and communication that can really get the best out of you and your development team. When you feel like you need more resources to complete development work on time, the answer doesn't necessarily have to be "get more developers working on it", it could be "make our development team work more effectively". Our sponsors are hand picked based on their technology and contribution to the java community. Main tickets to GeekOut UK (69 + booking fee) includes: -Breakfast, Lunch and snacks-Great coffee from MacIntyre coffee-Craft beers-9 amazing invited talks-9 great speakers The Community night ticket (free) includes: -Dinner-Beer-Unconference-Kickass vJUG session headlining the community night For the evening event please register herevia eventbrite: http://uk.geekout.ee/registration (Select Community night ticket) Schedule is here -http://uk.geekout.ee/conference/schedule/
hackthetower.co.ukis a hack day for any and all developers to come and collaborate on projects or discover new technologies together and enhance their skills. Bring your laptop and your desire to learn & have fun! Whether you want to build Java, Groovy, Scala, Force.com or Clojure apps, experiment with OpenJDK 8, get to grips with Git & Github, deploy apps with Heroku, try out one of the NoSQL databases like MongoDB or Neo4j or make some some robots dance, there are plenty of interesting things to work on. We are also co-hosting the Adopt Openjdk hackday. Come hack on the Java implementation that you use everyday! * Improved OpenJDK test coverage* OpenJDK Warnings cleanup* Small Bugs Fixes* The betterrev project If you're not familiar with the OpenJDKcodebase there will be people there to help you get started, including some from IBM who work on OpenJDK professionally. Rough Schedule You can get into the offices from around 9.30am onwards and have some breakfast and coffee, relax and take in the stunning view from the 26th & 27th floors of the Salesforce Tower (formerly known as the Heron Tower). 10.30am - Get together and discuss application ideas & things you want to try out.10.45am - Split into groups and get going1pm - Lunch time (sandwiches, quiche, fruit and drinks provided, requests taken)1.30pm onwards - Keep on hacking until you have had enough or want to go to the pub! Sign upPlease include your your full name so I can organise a visitor pass forSalesforce Tower, otherwise your entry to the event may be delayed. Either update your name on your meetup.com profile for this community or provide your full name when prompted during RSVP. In total, there is space for around 150 developers on the day. Food & drink will be provided, thanks to our hosts Salesforce Sponsor message Start building & deploying your apps in the cloud with free developer environments fromdeveloper.salesforce.comandwww.heroku.com
After a brief hiatus the Developer Sessions are back and theyre going on tour! The Developer Sessions are a series of social events in which you can come, drink, code and meet other developers. There is always a pleasant mix of first timers and regular faces, with students to experienced developers. The events run every third Tuesday in the month and will be at a variety of locations around London. As always there will be a RecWorker present to offer free CV/career advice to anyone that is interested - please let Anj know on ac@recworks.co.uk. If you would like to see the Developer Sessions coming to your local pub please let us know. We are very keen to hear which areas we should be running events in and want to hear from you especially if you feel that your area is not well represented in terms of tech events. Please note: This event will be held at The Britannia Pub, 1 Allen Street,Kensington, W8 6UX. http://www.britanniakensington.co.uk/find-us Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/
Presented by Mani Sarkar: In the past I have seen many a times, that only after we have delivered something to a client do we find out that we missed out on a feature or two. However tiny they might have been, they were mentioned in the spec. Nudged by this experience I have decided to take this seriously and develop a methodology for myself that will make my work closer to accurate than in the past. In this session I will walk you through how I start with a simple piece of text (possibly obscure requirement), expand on it, and make it clearer till we can start writing code that will bring the specification to life. The example I show is of a mini-specification but the principles behind the technique shown, are universal and could be applied to other full-size specs as well. I hope towards the end of the presentation, the code "hums" the same tune as the specification! And that you will be able to do something similar if not better, leaving with an additional tool in your tool-chest. The presentation will be roughly 40% slides and 60% demo of code snippets. There won't be much live coding but a number of code snippets will be shown. Some of the highlights of the presentation are: - Java - Refactoring code - Writing specifications in Gherkin (Given-When-Then) - Writing acceptance and unit tests -Obscure text to implementation guided by tests - Refactoring tests - Start to finish process - Github repo Who Should Attend: All levels Bio: Mani Sarkar is a passionate Java/JVM developer currently living and working in London, UK. He is advocate and evangelist to many projects (mainly F/OSS). He is also a strong supporter of software craftsmanship principles like BDD and TDD, and is a practitioner of techniques such as pair-programming and code reviews. Enjoys refactoring, writing tests and helping others revive their legacy code-base, using various tools and home-grown methods. He is an active member of a number of developer communities (LJC, LSCC and other partner communities), and shares his passion for open source technologies by blogging and presenting at conferences and hands-on workshops in the UK and other parts of Europe. Agenda: 18:15: Doors open.18:30/45: Main presentation -Refactoring specifications - Presented by Mani Sarkar (approx 45 mins plus questions)19:30/45:Networking and informal discussion at:The Slaughtered Lamb - 34-35 Great Sutton St, Clerkenwell, London, EC1V 0DX -http://www.theslaughteredlambpub.com/ Please Note: Nearest tube: BarbicanNearest Coffee Shop: Sun Coffee Shop, 55-63 Goswell Road, London, EC1V 7EN for if you arrive early *Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link:https://skillsmatter.com/meetups/6579-refactoring-specifications Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/ *Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link:https://skillsmatter.com/meetups/6579-refactoring-specifications
**Please note this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place** 48HR RAFFLE: Two Tickets - MongoDB London - 6th November 2014 We have been generously donated a pair of free tickets for MongoDB London (6th November atthe QEII Conference Center, London)to raffle to 2 lucky LJC members. The winners will be picked at random at the start of next week, and announced shortly afterwards. To enter simply RSVP to this event and answer the questions. Information from the organiser: Wondering why everyone is so excited about MongoDB? Want to learn how to start using MongoDB to build and manage modern applications? Already a power user but looking to deepen your skills? If you said "yes" to any of the above, then MongoDB London is the event for you. We'll start the day with fast-paced and highly-technical sessions for people new to MongoDB, and then jump right into the technical deep end. You'll hear from our Co-Founder and CTO about the future roadmap for MongoDB. You'll learn how to get the most from MongoDB in technical sessions from our key engineers. You'll get great ideas, and a few hands-on tips, from MongoDB customers, across a variety of interesting use cases. Along the way you'll meet other Architects, Developers, Ops people and Technical Business Leads from the London area, all of whom share an interest in developing applications they could never build before, all with MongoDB. We are excited to give away a pair of free tickets for MongoDB London on November 6th ath the QEII Conference Center. Please enter the contest for a highly-productive day of learning and fun. Tickets include access to sessions, 1x1 time with a MongoDB engineer during Ask the Experts, lunch and refreshments. If you are not one of the lucky winners you can still register for discounted tickets by using the promo code 25LondonJava which gives you 25% off tickets, registering three people or more gets an additional 25% off! This prize does not include travel/accommodation costs. To enter simply RSVP to this event and answer the questions. Raffle organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/
The Codeless Koan - Presented by Martijn Verburg (Approx. 45/50 mins) The Diabolical Developer will present an illustrated collection of fables concerning the Art and Philosophy of software development, written in the spirit of Zen kans. Some of the sample Koans include: * Monoliths * The 1000 words * Interpreter * The Palace of Infinite Pain * Roses are Red * Statelessness This talk will be presented with slides and maybe live coding. Who should attend: All levels Bio: Martijn Verburg is the co-founder & CEO of jClarity - a Java/JVM performance tools company. He is the co-leader for the LJC, from which he runs the global Adopt OpenJDK and Adopt a JSR programmes, two open source projects (PCGen and Ikasan EIP), and is a bartender at the Javaranch. You can also find him answering thorny questions at the Programmers StackExchange. He's a regular speaker at conferences (FOSDEM, JavaOne, OSCON, Devoxx etc) and is the co-author of "The Well-Grounded Java Developer" (Manning publications). Martijn was recently selected a Java Champion in recognition for his contribution to the Java ecosystem There are rumors that he might be the infamous Diabolical Developer, but that's clearly just a lie. Agenda: 18:15: Doors open18:30/45: Main presentation - "The Codeless Koan"19:45/20:00:Networking and informal discussion at:The Slaughtered Lamb - 34-35 Great Sutton St, Clerkenwell, London, EC1V 0DX -http://www.theslaughteredlambpub.com/ Please Note: Nearest tube: BarbicanNearest Coffee Shop: Sun Coffee Shop, 55-63 Goswell Road, London, EC1V 7EN for if you arrive early *Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: https://skillsmatter.com/meetups/6510-the-codeless-koan Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/ *Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link:https://skillsmatter.com/meetups/6510-the-codeless-koan
The talk will give a nice overview of the NoSQL Topic, explaining many of the buzzwords You will leave with some rules of thumb to decide for the right database for your use-case. You will learn about Multi-Model databases, a rising approach in the NoSQL movement, which combine the good features from NoSQL with the good features from SQL Subjects: * NoSQL, covering the most prominent Databases-Types. * Multi-Model databases as an emerging type * Everything will be presented in aStand-up Presentation with a discussion afterwards. Who should attend: * Developers of any experience level, they all might be in a situation where they have to decide which databases to use. * No in-depth database knowledge is required. * One should know at least basics of SQL. * The topic is especially interesting for developers who have experienced problems with databases and had to work against the database architecture for their product. This talk will show up some alternatives. *Undergraduates: Are highly welcome, in my experience most undergraduates only get in contact with SQL and this gives them the chance to learn about something in addition to their studies. Bio: Michael is a JavaScript and NoSQL enthusiast. In his spare time he is organising colognejs, the JavaScript user group in Cologne Germany scheduled every second month. In his professional life Michael holds a master degree in Computer Science. During his studies he was a studentassistant at the chair ofInformation Systems & Databases and worked a lot with SQL databases and hit the limits of these technologies. With his master's thesis he came in contact with NoSQL for the first time and is now very enthusiastic about it. As Front End and Graph Specialist he is member of the ArangoDB core team, developing the web frontend, graph visualisation and graph database features for this project. Agenda: 18:30: Doors open.18:45:: Main presentation - Polyglot Persistence & Multi-Model NoSQL Databases - Presented by Michael Hackstein(Circa 45 mins)19:45/20:00: We will head to 'Hotel Ibis - London, Euston, St Pancras' - 3 Cardington Street, London, NW1 2LW - for networking and further informal discussion after the event:http://www.ibishotel.com/gb/hotel-0921-ibis-london-euston-st-pancras/location.shtml Please Note: This event is being held at UCL in B40 Darwin Lecture Theatre,Gower Street, London, WC1E 6BT, London Please refer to this map - http://www.ucl.ac.uk/maps?locationID=84 Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/
PLEASE NOTE THIS IS A GLASSFISH USER GROUP EVENT NOT AN LJC EVENT. WE ARE USING THE LJC TO GENERATE PUBLICITY OF THE EVENT.To secure your place at this event you have to register via:http://www.payara.co.uk/glassfish_user_group_october_2014 'Testing Java EE Applications Using Arquillian & GlassFish' with Reza Rahman Presentation This session outlines how to effectively test Java EE APIs on GlassFish like JSF, Servlet, CDI, EJB 3, JPA, WebSocket and JAX-RS. Java EE includes a number of new features that enhance testability like generic dependency injection, CDI @Alternative,portable extensions, embedded containers and JSF project stages. Using these features and best of breed tools like JUnit and Arquillian it is possible to perform unit, integration, system and functional testing for Java EE APIs at all layers of the application. In addition to discussing tools and features, thesession will also demonstrate testing techniques like designing for testability, mock objects, isolation and test configuration. Speaker Reza Rahmanis a Java EE/GlassFish evangelist at Oracle Corporation.He is the author of the popular book EJB 3 in Action. Reza is a frequent speaker at Java User Groups and conferences worldwide including JavaOne. He is an avid contributor to industry journals like JavaLobby/DZone and TheServerSide. Reza has been a member of the Java EE, EJB and JMS expert groups. He implemented the EJB container for the Resin open source Java EE application server. https://blogs.oracle.com/reza/|@reza_rahman Agenda 18:00 - 18:15 - Coffee, Welcome and Networking18:15 - 19:30 - 'Testing Java EE Applications Using Arquillian and GlassFish' by Reza Rahman19:30 - 20:00 - Lightning talks20:00 - 20:30 - Beer, Pizza and Networking To secure your place at this event you have to register via:http://www.payara.co.uk/glassfish_user_group_october_2014 The event is organised and sponsored by Payara - The New Fish on the Block!
Are you developing applications that communicate over a network? Of course you are! This talk will take you through all the ways you can build fault-tolerant applications and how, once you get your team in the mindset that everything will eventually fail, dealing with the failures gracefully is no more work than building fragile applications The topics covered will be: - What to do when one of the dependencies fails to respond in time - When to use network level time outs vs application level timeouts - What to monitor and how to monitor it, e.g connection pools, thread pools, queue sizes, latency - How to test for when the network is slow or saturated - How to test for when traffic is lost in transit - How to train your stakeholders to expect failure and get them to agree to fallbacks meaning they can choose availability over other requirements - When to use automated circuit breakers vs manual kill switches - Tips, hints and tricks for doing all of the above in Java The topics covered are especially relevant if your application has a lot of dependencies that it communicates with over a network i.e. microservices. It is even more applicable if your application is deployed to an environment which is prone to failure e.g. a "cloud". With supporting powerpoint slides,I'll cover the theory and motivation behind moving to a more distributed architecture and then go through the pitfalls and the strategies for improving fault-tolerance, backed up with real examples from Sky. Who should attend: Developers, Testers, Architects Junior developers should be able to follow it as well Bio: Christopher Batey is Senior Software Engineer at BSkyB where he spends his time designing and developing their next generation platform that backs Sky Go, Now TV etc. This talk is built around the experiences and lessons learned in taking an existing monolithic application and breaking it up into small manageable services that can be developed and deployed separately. Agenda: 18:15: Doors open18:30/45: Main presentation (approx 45/60 mins)19:45/20:00: Networking and informal discussion at:The Slaughtered Lamb - 34-35 Great Sutton St, Clerkenwell, London, EC1V 0DX -http://www.theslaughteredlambpub.com/ Please Note: Nearest tube: BarbicanNearest Coffee Shop: Sun Coffee Shop, 55-63 Goswell Road, London, EC1V 7EN for if you arrive early *Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link:https://www.skillsmatter.com/meetups/6585-building-fault-tolerant-microservices Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/ *Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link:https://www.skillsmatter.com/meetups/6585-building-fault-tolerant-microservices
**Note** This is not an LJC event (Although the LJC is giving speakers to the event, including Martijn Verburg, Daniel Bryant and Simon Maple) Our Open Conference sponsors, IBM, are hosting a one day developer event at Twickenham Stadium in London, and it's FREE! Yay. You can view the full schedule here. To REGISTER you need to sign up directly on the DeveloperConnect site using this link. Make sure you select the DeveloperConnect event on the 6th (when prompted) Learn how the latest in Cloud, Big Data and Analytics, Mobile, Social and Security can help you develop faster - and smarter. Youll have the opportunity to talk to IBM specialists, test-drive our technology and see real innovation in action. Visit our interactive Solutions Centre, check out the Social Bar and find out about the future of cognitive computing from IBM Watson. Join us at our complimentary conference and: Exchange ideas with other developers and discover strategies for winning programming; Create new user experiences in development by integrating customised solutions; Build applications in different languages using the new BlueMix environment and experience the new cloud platform that helps to save time and ensures focus on applications. Harness the wealth of opportunities that the Internet of Things can bring with IOT Foundation in Bluemix. Learn how you can connect your devices and sensors to develop IoT Solutions in minutes at the launch of the ARM mbed IoT Starter Kit (Ethernet Edition for IBM Internet of Things Foundation)
hackthetower.co.ukis a hack day for any and all developers to come and collaborate on projects or discover new technologies together and enhance their skills. Bring your laptop and your desire to learn & have fun! Whether you want to build Java, Groovy, Scala, Force.com or Clojure apps, experiment with OpenJDK 8, get to grips with Git & Github, deploy apps with Heroku, try out one of the NoSQL databases like MongoDB or Neo4j or make some some robots dance, there are plenty of interesting things to work on. We are also co-hosting the Adopt Openjdk hackday. Come hack on the Java implementation that you use everyday! * Improved OpenJDK test coverage* OpenJDK Warnings cleanup* Small Bugs Fixes* The betterrev project If you're not familiar with the OpenJDKcodebase there will be people there to help you get started, including some from IBM who work on OpenJDK professionally. Rough Schedule You can get into the offices from around 9.30am onwards and have some breakfast and coffee, relax and take in the stunning view from the 26th & 27th floors of the Salesforce Tower (formerly known as the Heron Tower). 10.30am - Get together and discuss application ideas & things you want to try out.10.45am - Split into groups and get going1pm - Lunch time (sandwiches, quiche, fruit and drinks provided, requests taken)1.30pm onwards - Keep on hacking until you have had enough or want to go to the pub! Sign upPlease include your your full name so I can organise a visitor pass forSalesforce Tower, otherwise your entry to the event may be delayed. Either update your name on your meetup.com profile for this community or provide your full name when prompted during RSVP. In total, there is space for around 150 developers on the day. Food & drink will be provided, thanks to our hosts Salesforce Sponsor message Start building & deploying your apps in the cloud with free developer environments fromdeveloper.salesforce.comandwww.heroku.com
10 November 2014 is a date you should definitely get into your diary! We are delighted to be one of the community groups that have managed to secure free meeting room space, courtesy of the guys at Shoreditch Works and the sponsorship they have received. This gives us the opportunity to invite you to come along to an awesome LJC event - our World Tour Mash Up. The Mash Up will be highlights of LJC speakers 'Talk(s) of the year" from a wide range of Java related topics, its going to be an ideal way to catch up on anything you've missed, as well as being a welcome chance to network and catch up with other members/friends from the LJC. The event is guaranteed to be popular, so please sign up as soon as possible to make sure you don't miss out. Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/
**Please note this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place** 48HR RAFFLE: 1 Ticket - Cassandra Summit Europe in London (3rd/4th Dec) We have been generously donated a free ticket for Cassandra Summit Europe in London (3rd/4th December)to raffle to 1 lucky LJC member. The winner will be picked at random at the start of next week, and announced shortly afterwards. To enter simply RSVP to this event and answer the questions. Information from the organiser: DataStax wanted to let you know about FREE tickets to their Cassandra Summit Europe taking place in London in early December (3rd and 4th). The 4th is a full conference day with free admission to all attendees and will feature presentations by companies like Apple, ING, Credit Suisse, Target, UBS, The Noble Group as well as other top Cassandra experts in the world. There will be content for those entirely new to Cassandra all the way to the most seasoned Cassandra veteran, spanning development, architecture, and operations as well as how to integrate Cassandra with analytics and search technologies like Apache Spark and Apache Solr. To check out the details and claim your ticket, click here December 3rd is a paid training day. If you are interested in getting a discount on paid training, please speak with Diego (dferreira@datastax.com) This prize does not include travel/accommodation costs. To enter simply RSVP to this event and answer the questions. Raffle organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/
The Developer Sessions are back and theyre going on tour! The Developer Sessions are a series of social events in which you can come, drink, code and meet other developers. There is always a pleasant mix of first timers and regular faces, with students to experienced developers. The events run every third Tuesday in the month and will be at a variety of locations around London. As always there will be a RecWorker present to offer free CV/career advice to anyone that is interested - please let Anj know on ac@recworks.co.uk. If you would like to see the Developer Sessions coming to your local pub please let us know. We are very keen to hear which areas we should be running events in and want to hear from you especially if you feel that your area is not well represented in terms of tech events. Please note: This event will be held at The Hoop and Grapes, 80 Farringdon Street, EC4A 4BL. http://www.thehoopandgrapes.co.uk/ Nearest Tubes: Blackfriars (0.3 miles), Chancery Lane (0.3 miles), Farrindon (0.4 miles) Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/
Simple examples of Reactive Programming can be powerful additions to server side applications where performance is important. PPT presentation with examples. Who should attend: Experienced Developers. Bio: Peter Lawrey has designed, developed and supported high frequency trading systems for a couple of hedge funds. He has provided consulting to a number of investment banks, trading firms and hedge funds as Principal Consultant for Higher Frequency Trading and the lead developer for OpenHFT. He has the most answers on stackoverflow for [Java] and [Performance]. Agenda: 18:15: Doors open.18:30/45: Main presentation -Reactive Programming by Example - Presented by Peter Lawrey (Approx 1 hour + questions) Please Note: Nearest tube: BarbicanNearest Coffee Shop: Sun Coffee Shop, 55-63 Goswell Road, London, EC1V 7EN for if you arrive early *Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link:https://skillsmatter.com/meetups/6607-reactive-programming-by-example Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/ *Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link:https://skillsmatter.com/meetups/6607-reactive-programming-by-example
Unless you've been sitting under a rock for most of the year you can't have missed all the fuss around Platform as a Service or PaaS. How much of PaaS is hype and how much is it real? Why not find out by coming to a unique hack event on Saturday 22nd November at the Shoreditch village hall. IBM is hosting an open hackday where LJC members can come and kick the PaaS tyres. It's a unique event because we'll have some of the developers who are making it real and can show you how to get the most from a PaaS. Who'll be there? We'll have developers from IBM and other companies to help you explore and hack - and as many hackers as we can get in to the Shoreditch Village hall If that's not enough we're open to other ideas - if you have a PaaS based API or related technology you'd like to showcase for others to hack on then let us know or just turn up on the day Since IBM and the BlueMix team are sponsoring the hack day we're expecting the event to be BlueMix and Cloud Foundryfocusedbut it is not exclusive. There will be IoT related options and other stuff. This is your opportunity to try out a PaaS, explore the technology services on offer and ask those challenging technical questions. We expect to have developers to demonstrate and help you hack on Watson APIs in BlueMix Internet of Things NodeRed BigData, DBaaS etc from Cloudant Java and Java EE in BlueMix - including a Code Rally online contest where you can win a GoPro Twilio API and service We'll also have some Pi/Adruino stuff for local IoT exploration A late edition - the MQ Light guys are coming too So come along, bring your laptop and have fun - oh and lunch is provided of course. Agenda 9:30 doors open 10:00 a series of 5-10 minute sessions to wet your appetite and showcase ideas for hacking 11:00 Start hacking 15:00 onwards - round up and optional demos 16:00 leave exhausted What do I bring? It's a hack - bring your laptop and power supply. If you have a PI or Arduino bring that too and see if you can hook that up and make something cool What else do I have to do This event is being sponsored by the IBM BlueMix team so the only mandatory requirement is that you agree to sign up for a free trial on BlueMix. You can do that at the hack day or in advance hereWe recommend signing up before the day just-in-case.
London Java Community Open Conference ***** NOTE ***** To attend you MUST CLICK HERE AND BUY YOUR TICKET ON THE LJC OPEN CONFERENCE 2014 WEBSITE Details of the Conference sessions proposed are being placed on theLJC Open Conference website Directions to venue(Google Map) The entrance to the IBM offices is on Upper Ground (Google Street View) opposite the junction of Cornwall street. You will see a driveway going up to the first floor of the building, walk up the footpath on this driveway to arrive at the entrance to the IBM building. Rough Schedule overview: 8.30 am Sign-in hands over to security (will be very slow)9.30 am Brief introduction, discussing how day will work and organising the board10.10 am Conference Keynote12.40 Lunch5.30 pm Conference wrap up5.30 pm+ Social event TBC Conference overview LJC Conference #6 is a one day event where you can attend a wide range of talks, workshops and practical sessions, drawn from the experiences of those in industry. Its a great opportunity to learn withup to 30 sessionsduring the day, including a keynote, lightning talks, open source project overviews, a Java 8 track, discussion groups and a whole lot more. What people said about our previous conferences (see photos): "Fantastic day, learned a great deal and made some valuable connections with people in the industry, more of these please""Amazing forum. Met some of the best minds in the field. Inspired me to learn more and work harder.. ""Brilliant time! Learnt a lot and met a lot of great people. Look forward to the next one :-)""An excellent opportunity to learn more about things I should know about but didn't" Those who want to can get more involved and are encouraged to share there ideas and experiences. Some sessions have already been proposed, why not let us know what you want to see or present? You can also come up with ideas and sessions on the morning of the conference (as with an unconference)!! We encourage you to talk about a wide range of topics, not just specifics of the Java language, Spring, Hibernate, Open Source, OSGi, etc, but also about tools and practices - eg. software craftsmanship, BDD, TDD, Kanban, Agile and other practices that enhance our world. Due to the diversity of the Java ecosystem in terms of languages, we have many people from the Groovy, Scala and Clojure user groups will be sharing their experiences. The open conference has a minimal payment to cover costs of food. No payment is made to speakers or organisers from this entry fee. If you are unable to pay via Paypal, please contact theorganiser directlyand we will try to seek alternative solution.
Presented by Trisha Gee.We hear its common to create an MVP (Minimum Viable Product) in a language that facilitates rapid prototyping, and then migrate to the JVM when the application requires better stability and performance. Im going to use Java to create a web application in under an hour. The JVM is a polyglot platform, and Ill show how to use the correct tools for this application, including: AngularJS; Bootstrap; HTML 5; Web Services; Java; MongoDB; and Groovy - its fully buzz-word-compliant. I wont go into every technology in depth, Ill demonstrate the role of each tool and how they interact. At the end of the talk well have a fully working mobile/browser-friendly app, without compromising on design or good practice. Its even going to have tests. Bio: Trisha has developed Java applications for a range of industries, including finance, manufacturing and non-profit, for companies of all sizes. She has expertise in Java high performance systems, is passionate about enabling developer productivity, and right now is getting to grips with working in an Open Source fashion as a developer for MongoDB Inc, where she contributes to the Java driver and Morphia. Trisha blogs regularly on subjects that she thinks developers and other humans should care about, shes a leader of the Sevilla Java & MongoDB User Groups, a key member of the London Java Community and a Java Champion - she believes we shouldn't all have to make the same mistakes again and again. Agenda: 18:30: Doors open18:45: Main presentation Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/
The talk will give an introduction to the area of Domain Driven Design coined by Eric Evans. It will explain all the concepts and methodology from this area and how this can be applied in your daily work. Furthermore it maps the concepts onto nowadays NoSQL Databases and shows where both are working hand in hand. Using Domain Driven Design allows to better communicate with non-technical customers (the domain expert) and reduces the amount of misunderstandings in the product description. Furthermore it allows the domain expert to reason about the resulting program even without any technical understanding. Subjects: The talk will be a pure ppt. presentation as it rather high-level and independent of implementation details. It is more about presenting the ideas and concepts of Domain Driven Design. This includes: * Introduction of all technical phrases * Transformation of real world product definitions into design language * Mapping the concepts to NoSQL databases Who should attend: * Developers of any experience level, no knowledge is required beforehand. * The topic is especially interesting for developers interested in architectural design, Domain Driven Design gives some new ideas on how to design your software. Undergraduates:Are highly welcome, domain driven design is a quite new field of studies. So it might bring some ideas for a Bachelor's or Master's Thesis. Bio: Michael is a JavaScript and NoSQL enthusiast. In his spare time he is organising colognejs, the JavaScript user group in Cologne Germany scheduled every second month. In his professional life Michael holds a master degree in Computer Science. During his studies he was a studentassistant at the chair ofInformation Systems & Databases and worked a lot with SQL databases and hit the limits of these technologies. With his master's thesis he came in contact with NoSQL for the first time and is now very enthusiastic about it. As Front End and Graph Specialist he is member of the ArangoDB core team, developing the web frontend, graph visualisation and graph database features for this project. Agenda: 18:15: Doors open18:30/45: Main presentation (approx 45 mins) Please Note: Nearest tube: BarbicanNearest Coffee Shop: Sun Coffee Shop, 55-63 Goswell Road, London, EC1V 7EN for if you arrive early *Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link:https://skillsmatter.com/meetups/6710-domain-driven-design-nosql Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/ *Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: https://skillsmatter.com/meetups/6710-domain-driven-design-nosql
hackthetower.co.ukis a hack day for any and all developers to come and collaborate on projects or discover new technologies together and enhance their skills. Bring your laptop and your desire to learn & have fun! This month I am also running an Introduction to Clojure workshop, to help you discover how simple, powerful and fun it is to do functional programming on the JVM. Please add your name to the Clojure Workshop form if you want to attend or help out (or both) We are also co-hosting the Adopt Openjdk hackday. Come hack on the Java implementation that you use everyday! * Improved OpenJDK test coverage* OpenJDK Warnings cleanup* Small Bugs Fixes* The betterrev project If you're not familiar with the OpenJDKcodebase there will be people there to help you get started, including some from IBM who work on OpenJDK professionally. Rough Schedule You can get into the offices from around 9.30am onwards and have some breakfast and coffee, relax and take in the stunning view from the 26th & 27th floors of the Salesforce Tower (formerly known as the Heron Tower). 10.30am - Get together and discuss application ideas & things you want to try out.10.45am - Split into groups and get going1pm - Lunch time (sandwiches, quiche, fruit and drinks provided, requests taken)1.30pm onwards - Keep on hacking until you have had enough or want to go to the pub! Sign upPlease include your your full name so I can organise a visitor pass forSalesforce Tower, otherwise your entry to the event may be delayed. Either update your name on your meetup.com profile for this community or provide your full name when prompted during RSVP. In total, there is space for around 150 developers on the day. Food & drink will be provided, thanks to our hosts Salesforce Sponsor message Start building & deploying your apps in the cloud with free developer environments fromdeveloper.salesforce.comandwww.heroku.com
Ethereum, the second largest crowd presale in the world (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_highest_funded_crowdfunding_projects), has captured the world's imagination in reinventing how we think about Internet infrastructure, communication and privacy. Some say it could revolutionalize the web by enabling the disruption of todays giants, as well as enabling a secure, private and scalable internet of things. (http://bernardlunn.com/2014/09/22/the-crazy-brilliant-ibm-adept-fork-of-ethereum/). Featured on Wired, Al Jazeera, the New Scientist, the Telegraph, Le Monde and many other international publications, Ethereum is a free and open source software platform to build and distribute decentralised applications. Ethereum is a generalised programming platform based on blockchain technology and could therefore be used to model anything that can be mathematically represented.While we are platform and technology agnostic, there has been some amazing community work done on the Java implementation of Ethereum as well as the IBM/Samsung implementation on Android. Ill cover the acceleration of centralization, the issues it raises on the internet today, and the solutions decentralization offers. Ill provide practical examples of what the ethereum interface looks like, including demo dapps. The entire presentation is slide-based (TED style). Who should attend: This a technically minded presentation however both junior developers and non-devs will certainly enjoy it. Bio: In January 2014 Stephan joined the Ethereum project as CCO. His current focus is on smart contracts/smart property and the development of decentralized applications deployed on top of a blockchain infrastructure. He is particularly interested in the potential for societal change engendered by users regaining control over both their funds and personal information. Stephan is the founder and CEO of the world's first crypto-consultancy, Ursium (http://www.ursium.com/). He regularly speaks at conferences, community events and meetups, and is the media contact for the Ethereum project. Agenda: 18:15: Doors open18:30: Lightning talk from Jatin Bhadra "Maven Snapshots and Continuous Delivery"18:45: Main presentation (approx 1 hour 15 mins with questions) Please Note: Nearest tube: BarbicanNearest Coffee Shop: Sun Coffee Shop, 55-63 Goswell Road, London, EC1V 7EN for if you arrive early *Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link:https://skillsmatter.com/meetups/6933-the-decentralization-singularity Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/
PLEASE NOTE THIS IS A JBUG EVENT NOT AN LJC EVENT. WE ARE USING THE LJC TO GENERATE PUBLICITY OF THE EVENT. TO GUARANTEE A PLACE YOU MUST REGISTER YOUR DETAILS HERE:http://www.c2b2.co.uk/london_jbug_january_2015 JBUG EVENT: Hibernate Search 5: Adding Full-Text Query Super-Powers to Your JPA by Sanne Grinovero- Principal Software Engineer at Red Hat Presentation With the searchbox being the primary user interaction element for any modern application, the requirement to provide a responsive and smart search engine is becoming a primary concernfor many developers. Users and product managers alike are accustomed to the web experience as provided by websites such as Google and Amazon, and will expect or demand the same experience when using your new service. With the right tool it doesn't have to be complex - you just have to be familiar with the subject and anticipate this new form of requirements! Hibernate Search is a popular extension of the Hibernate ORM library which integrates Apache Lucene indexing and search capabilities into the traditional Hibernate domain model. In this talk Sanne will explain what Lucene can do for you, and show how to introduce the technology into an existing JPA/Hibernate based application. We'll also look at the novelties of the freshly released Hibernate Search version 5.0, and how it integrates with other JBoss community projects such as WildFly and Infinispan. No previous knowledge of Lucene is required; being familiar with Hibernate might be useful but is not essential. Speaker Sanne Grinoverois one of the core developers of the popular Hibernate project, where he leads the integration with Apache Lucene known as Hibernate Search. He also contributes to the integration of Lucene with the Infinispan project, known as JBoss Data Grid, aiming to make high performance Search and NoSQL capabilities easy to use and well integrated into the mainstream Java stack. He lived in Holland, Italy, Chile, Portugal and currently hacks in London.@SanneGrinovero PLEASE NOTE THIS IS A JBUG EVENT NOT AN LJC EVENT. WE ARE USING THE LJC TO GENERATE PUBLICITY OF THE EVENT. TO GUARANTEE A PLACE YOU MUST REGISTER YOUR DETAILS HERE:http://www.c2b2.co.uk/london_jbug_january_2015
Presented byChristopher Batey. Building fault tolerant applications requires application developers to change their mindset. The last talk Christopher gave was on building fault tolerant applications:https://skillsmatter.com/skillscasts/5810-building-fault-tolerant-microservices which was all about the lessons we learnt at Sky when building fault tolerant microservices in the cloud. This talk will go into the Datastore choice for that platform: Apache Cassandra. Christopher will give a brief introduction to Apache Cassandra, how to interact with it from Java and how its architecture is build around being tolerant to faults. Then we'll talk about how developers' mindset needs to change when dealing with a distributed datastore, topics include: CAPtheorem andcross datacenter latency. People should leave with a good understanding of Cassandra and how using adistributeddatabase is very different from a traditional relational database. We'll cover: - Deployments for building distributed applications- Brief intro to Apache Cassandra & Interacting it with it from Java- Cassandra deployments that cross Datacenters- Examples will be on github Who should attend: Developers, Architects Bio: Christopher Batey is Software Engineer/Technologist/Geek. He currently works at DataStax as aTechnicalEvangelist and previously worked as a Senior Software Engineerat BSkyB wherehe spent his time designing and developing their next generation platform that backs Sky Go, Now TV etc. This talk is built around the experiences and lessons learned in building multiple Java services backed by Apache Cassandra. Agenda: 18:15: Doors open18:30: Main presentation (approx 1 hour 20 mins) Please Note: Nearest tube: BarbicanNearest Coffee Shop: Sun Coffee Shop, 55-63 Goswell Road, London, EC1V 7EN for if you arrive early *Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: https://skillsmatter.com/meetups/6927-building-fault-tolerant-java-applications-with-apache-cassandra Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/
HackTheTower is cancelled for January, sorry. There will be a gathering of Hackers at the Southbank in London. There is no sponsorship for this event, so you will need to arrange your own lunch. We are hosting the Adopt Openjdk hackday. Come hack on the Java implementation that you use everyday! * Improved OpenJDK test coverage* OpenJDK Warnings cleanup* Small Bugs Fixes* The betterrev project If you're not familiar with the OpenJDKcodebase there will be people there to help you get started, including some from IBM who work on OpenJDK professionally. There is also likely to be some Scala/Clojure hackers in the vacinity, but we're not 100% on that!
**Please note this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place** 48HR RAFFLE: 3 prizes to give away!Two tickets to Monki Gras 29-30th Jan for two lucky winners anda 20% discount for 10 lucky winners! We have been generously donated two free tickets for Monki Gras in London (29th-30th January)to raffle to 2 lucky LJC members. Also we have a 20% discount code for 10 lucky winners. The winners will be picked at random at the start of next week, and announced shortly afterwards. To enter simply RSVP to this event and answer the questions. Information from the organiser: Monki Gras is a single track intimate event with epic food and craft beer experiences. The theme this year is a Celebration of Nordic Craft Culture and Tech. Our stellar lineup of speakers will discuss how the Nordics have shaped and influenced everything from technology to brand identity to craft beer.We'll ask the question, 'Why is Nordic Culture so productive?' and we'll explore some of the answers with Nordic natives guiding us along the way. In addition to the incredible speakers, we'll also showcase Nordic products, such as mind-blowing smoked salmon and don't forget the schnapps! Code, design, liberal social values, education, great taste, modesty, skill, practice. This conference is going to explore all of these themes, and its going to rock. This prize does not include travel/accommodation costs. To enter simply RSVP to this event and answer the questions. Raffle organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/
TinkerForge is a very simple, easy-to-handle modular electronic system. Depending on the application, a system of sensor, wireless and motor control elements can be built in a modular way and programmed with a few lines of code. No soldering iron is needed. Both the hardware and the software are open source. After a brief overview of the available sensors and actuators, we will quickly start with the actual programming. Together, we will explore different applications, architectures, and the combination of TinkerForge with Java. Using sensors, actuators and some other elements, we will take the first steps and delve into the practical world of IoT with Java 8 and TinkerForge. What do I need to bring? - A laptop on which you can install software - Java 8 (JDK) installed and running - A JDK 8 capable IDE Optionally, you can of course also bring your own Raspberry Pi or the like. Goals: - addressing sensors, storing data and display them using JavaFX. - (opt) parallel processing of sensor data streams using Java 8 Streams - using touch elements Agenda: This event will be run over two 2 hour time slots on two evenings - Tuesday 27th January 2015 & Wednesday 28th January 2015. The doors will open on both evenings at 6.15pm for a 6.30pm start. With a finish time of 8.30pm both evenings. Total time 4 hours. Please Note: Nearest tube: BarbicanNearest Coffee Shop: Sun Coffee Shop, 55-63 Goswell Road, London, EC1V 7EN for if you arrive early *Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link:https://skillsmatter.com/meetups/6934-industrial-prototyping-with-java-8-and-tinkerforge-part-one Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/
Presented by David Saltares Mrquez. Libgdx is a popular open source Java based cross-platform game development framework. With one codebase, developers can target Windows, Mac, Linux, Android, iOS and browsers. The talk will cover Libgdx's architecture, features, examples of commercial applications where it's being used and the excellent community behind it. There will be a small demo of a basic application and some QA to close. Who should attend: Any developer that's not already heavily familiar with Libgdx Bio: David Saltares Mrquez is a C++ software developer at a top-tier financial data company. He was an Artificial Intelligence programmer at Crytek, UK, for two years, where he developed emergent systems for Homefront: The Revolution. He then moved to Sony Computer Entertainment Europe to work on multimedia applications for PlayStation 4. He is part of the Libgdx core team, works on small indie games in his spare time, loves game jams, and often delivers presentations at universities. Find out more about his work on his personal blog at http://siondream.com. Agenda: 18:15: Doors open18:30: Main presentation (approx 60 mins) Please Note: Nearest tube: BarbicanNearest Coffee Shop: Sun Coffee Shop, 55-63 Goswell Road, London, EC1V 7EN for if you arrive early *Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link:https://skillsmatter.com/meetups/6956-libgdx-for-cross-platform-game-development Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/
Ceylon is a new modern, elegant programming language for the JVM and JavaScript VM, designed for team work. But it's more than that, it is a full platform with modularity, an SDK, tools and IDEs. We will present Ceylon the language, the platform, and its ecosystem. You will see everything from starting a new project in the IDE to publishing it on Herd, our module repository, including using the SDK. We will also discuss the ongoing Ceylon projects such as the build system, Vert.x integration or Cayla, the new web framework. Finally we will discuss the plans for Ceylon 1.2 and further. Who should attend: Any developer, beginner to expert. Bio: From deep into the Nice mountains, Stphane works for Red Hat on the Ceylon project. Passionate hacker in Java, C, Perl or Scheme. A web standards and database enthusiast, he implemented among other things a WYSIWYG XML editor, a multi-threading library in C, a mobile-agent language in Scheme (compiler and virtual machines), and some Web 2.0 RESTful services and rich web interfaces with JavaScript and HTML 5. Eager to share, he is a frequent speaker at various conferences such as the Scheme Workshop, Nice University, Devoxx, JavaOne, JavaZone, JAX, many Java User Groups as well as the Riviera Java User Group he founded with Nicolas Leroux. A long-time open-source user and advocate, he is committer on RESTEasy, author of jax-doclets, stamps.js and various Play! Framework modules, and developer on various Ceylon projects for Red Hat. Agenda: 18:15: Doors open18:30: Main presentation (approx 60 mins) Please Note: Nearest tube: BarbicanNearest Coffee Shop: Sun Coffee Shop, 55-63 Goswell Road, London, EC1V 7EN for if you arrive early *Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link:https://skillsmatter.com/meetups/6988-ceylon-from-here-to-infinity-the-big-picture-and-what-s-coming Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/
With the advent of lambdas in Java 8, functional programming truly has returned to the mainstream, sitting proudly alongside its object-oriented brother. We now have the tools to create applications that use the best of both paradigms, but our knowledge and understanding of the concepts under the hood needs to catch up. For years, we've relied on design patterns to guide us to solutions that are clean, simple and practical, but many of the classic OO design patterns laid out in the Gang of Four's book are actually workarounds for the lack of functional programming constructs such as lambdas and higher-order functions. With new tools at our disposal, we can simplify the majority of design patterns, using pure functions to reduce the proliferation of classes that are used once and thrown away. By removing the boilerplate surrounding our code, we focus on the most important part: the behaviour. I will lead you through the classic design patterns, as well as some more contemporary object-oriented principles, showing you how functions can drastically simplify your design, leading to code that is cleaner and more concise. This presentation will cover a few design patterns, but the focus is on Java 8. It's a slideshow, so it's not live coding, but practically all of the slides are entirely code, so you should be comfortable reading it. Who should attend: Anyone familiar with Java and design patterns. Let's say not totally junior developers, but anyone who considers themselves not a complete newbie. Bio: Samir Talwar is a developer whos focused on two things: doing the right things in the right way. He has worked in a number of industries and has always focused on the bleeding edge, diving into new technologies, techniques and methodologies with a fervour. His experience with various tools allows him to select the right one for the job, and combined with his experience with Extreme Programming, he has a knack for spotting simple approaches to complex problems. A prominent member and organiser of the London Software Craftsmanship Community, Samir tries to help people (including himself) challenge their definitions of "good enough" by running workshops, pairing with anyone and everyone and constantly asking questions. By challenging assumptions and encouraging people to go one step further to solve a problem, he helps them embrace a more holistic view of software development. Agenda: 18:15: Doors open18:30: Miroslav Ligas will present a lightning talk about the Liferay Group and forthcoming event18:45: Main presentation (approx 1 hour including questions) Please Note: Nearest tube: BarbicanNearest Coffee Shop: Sun Coffee Shop, 55-63 Goswell Road, London, EC1V 7EN for if you arrive early *Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link:https://skillsmatter.com/meetups/6957-three-years-of-continuous-delivery-at-beamly Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/
The Developer Sessions are back and theyre going on tour! The Developer Sessions are a series of social events in which you can come, drink, code and meet other developers. There is always a pleasant mix of first timers and regular faces, with students to experienced developers. The events run every third Tuesday in the month and will be at a variety of locations around London. As always there will be a RecWorker present to offer free CV/career advice to anyone that is interested - please let Anj know on ac@recworks.co.uk. If you would like to see the Developer Sessions coming to your local pub please let us know. We are very keen to hear which areas we should be running events in and want to hear from you especially if you feel that your area is not well represented in terms of tech events. Please note: This event will be held at The Camel & Artichoke, 121 Lower Marsh, SE1 7AE https://plus.google.com/107228607885445473449/about?gl=uk&hl=en Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/
**Please note this is not an LJC event. We are promoting the event on behalf of theLondon Java EE & GlassFish User Group** To secure your place at this event please register here: http://www.payara.co.uk/february_london_glassfish_user_group_with_peter Presentation This session is about getting the best out of the Java EE 7 release with a particular focus on the digital developer and designer. Is there still life in Java EE? Yes there is and you'll learn about exciting features that ease the development of enterprise applications. GlassFish 4 is the reference implementation for Java EE 7 and it provides out of the box open source production environment for WebSocket, Batch, JSON, Concurrency, JMS2, JAX-RS 2, CDI 1.1. In this presentation, we will focus on the recent JSF enhancements to do with Faces Flows and Conversational Scope. Java EE 7 is relevant to digital developers and it can integrate recent designs and sophisticated front ends, which as utilise the responsive and adaptive techniques. We will look at CDI and EJB integration and demonstrate how to best get the application structure in the correct fashion for an enterprise application. The author also will provide some handy tips for troubleshooting development with GlassFish, including deployment of artifacts. Finally, we will look around ahead on the probable improvements to the Java EE platform. Speaker Peter Pilgrim is an English professional software developer, designer and sometimes architect. He works in an interdependent contractor in the creative media digital and financial services industries in London, building for e-commerce enterprise web applications for leading household names, bluechip clients. Peter also has worked in the financial services industry developing IT for clients for over a decade. He has contracted or worked with top-tier businesses such as Engine, Transform, DigitasLBi and Pearson Group and investment banks like UBS and Credit Suisse. Peter develops Scala software with Play and Akka frameworks. He is also specialises in Java Enterprise Edition (Java EE) technology. In 2013, he published a book through Packt called the Java EE 7 Developer Handbook. Peter is the 91st Oracle Java Champion. Agenda 18:00 - 18:15 - Coffee, Welcome and Networking18:15 - 19:30 - 'Digital Java EE 7 New and Noteworthy' with Peter Pilgrim19:30 - 20:00 - Lightning talks20:00 - 20:30 - Beer, Pizza and Networking Problem Solving Sessions The Problem Solving panel sessions give you an opportunity to discuss various GlassFish-related problems you may want to share and discuss with the rest of the GUG members. If you want to ask others for help and advice, discuss the issues, listen to suggestions and find the solutions let us know! Email your topic to [masked] and we will be more than happy to add your session to the agenda. Lightning Talks We are also opening up the floor to anyone using GlassFish who has a tale to share. We are looking for a number of lightning talks 5 - 10 minutes in length where you can share your experiences, problems or wonderful solutions with the rest of the community. This is a huge opportunity to develop new or hone existing speaking skills! If you are interested, please send the title of your talk to [masked] To secure your place at this event please register here: http://www.payara.co.uk/february_london_glassfish_user_group_with_peter This event is sponsored and organised by Payara - The new fish on the block!
This is a rare opportunity to sit down with hiring managers that are NOT recruiting so you do not need to worry about trying to impress them. This is your chance to ask them the questions that you really want to know. e.g. - What makes a candidate stand out from the crowd? - What common mistakes do they see on CVs? - What really drives them mad in interviews? The answers to these questions are often highly subjective and based around a hiring managers personal experience, hence we are going to get 5-10 hiring managers that can give you a variety of opinions to these questions. The event will work in a speed-mentoring format, which means youll sit in small groups of 5-10 people then hiring managers will go from group to group for about 15 minutes giving you a brief introduction then answering any questions you have around the recruitment process. RecWorks have organised this event, so as usual we will be onsite to help out and answer questions from our perspective as recruiters. Please see this map for location details -http://www.ucl.ac.uk/maps?locationID=157 The building name is 'UCL School of Slavonic & East European Studies', 16 Taviton Street, WC1H 0BW. Rooms all on the 4th floor. Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/
hackthetower.co.ukis a hack day for any and all developers to come and collaborate on projects or discover new technologies together and enhance their skills. Bring your laptop and your desire to try things out & have fun! Note: Registration for this event closes the Monday before the date of the event, so we have time to add your names to the visitor list :( We are also co-hosting the Adopt Openjdk hackday. Come hack on the Java implementation that you use everyday! * Improved OpenJDK test coverage* OpenJDK Warnings cleanup* Small Bugs Fixes* The betterrev project If you're not familiar with the OpenJDKcodebase there will be people there to help you get started, including some from IBM who work on OpenJDK professionally. Rough Schedule You can get into the offices from around 9.45am onwards and have some breakfast and coffee, relax and take in the stunning view from the 26th & 27th floors of the Salesforce Tower (formerly known as the Heron Tower). 10.30am - Get together and discuss application ideas & things you want to try out.10.45am - Split into groups and get going1pm - Lunch time (sandwiches, fruit and drinks provided, requests taken)1.30pm onwards - Keep on hacking until you have had enough or want to go to the pub! Sign upPlease include a first and lastname when prompted to (if its not on your meetup profile) so we can register you with building security, otherwise you may have to wait in reception for a long time. Food & drink will be provided, thanks to our hosts Salesforce Sponsor message Start building & deploying your apps in the cloud with free developer environments fromdeveloper.salesforce.comandwww.heroku.com
Come along and learn how the Crafty Consultant makes his money by consulting craftily in DevOps. We'll see how silos can be broken down by introducing more independent and isolated team, how only idiots automate everything, and why monitoring only provides actionable insight that simply confuses your clients... ...and then we'll look at the real world implementation of DevOps :-) The primary aims of this talk are to introduce the concepts behind the DevOps movement, and we'll do this by debunking all of the Crafty Consultant's advice. We'll cover the drivers of breaking down silos (in business and in tech), the benefits of automation (especially with provisioning and configuring infrastructure), and the power that monitoring provides (particularly when deploying to the cloud, or implementing a microservice architecture). If none of the above interests you, then you are still welcome to come along and play buzzword bingo. I'll guarantee you hear the following phrases: microservices, cloud, immutable infrastructure, anti-fragile, Docker (Rocket?), Gerbil, Mesos, Kubernetes, ELK, build pipeline, continuous delivery, Puppet, Chef, Wookie, JMeter, hystrix, mechanical sympathy, thinking outside the container, 'low hanging fruit' and more... Note for regular LJC attendees: This presentation will be similar in concept to my previous "Chuck Norris doesn't do DevOps", but with less Chuck and more craftiness... http://www.slideshare.net/dbryant_uk/devops-bryant-v2014v2 This session will focus on the ideas and application of DevOps through the magic of Powerpoint A joint event between the London Java Community and the Front Endgineers groups. Who should attend: Open to all, from junior to senior, developers and QA to operations. This will be a relatively introductory session on DevOps, and so people without much exposure to the concept will benefit the most (and senior DevOps practitioners probably won't see anything new, but are welcome to come and heckle) Bio: Daniel Bryant is a Principal Consultant for OpenCredo, and specialises in enabling agility within organisations. His current workincludes introducing better requirement gathering and planning techniques, focusing on the relevance of architecture within agile development,andfacilitating continuous integration/delivery. Daniels current technical expertise focuses on'DevOps tooling, cloud platforms and microservice implementations. He is also a leader within the London Java Community (LJC), contributes to several open source projects, writes for well known technical websites, and regularly presents at international conferences such as JavaOne, Devoxx and FOSDEM. Twitter:https://twitter.com/danielbryantukGithub:https://github.com/daniel-bryant-uk Agenda: 18:15: Doors open18:30: Main presentation (approx 45 mins) We'll then be heading to the pub for drinks after the main talk. Please Note: This event will be held in the Darwin Lecture Theatre at UCL,Gower Street, London WC1E 6XA. Please refer to this map:http://www.ucl.ac.uk/maps?locationID=84 We will head to 'Hotel Ibis - London, Euston, St Pancras' - 3 Cardington Street, London, NW1 2LW - for networking and further informal discussion after the event:http://www.ibishotel.com/gb/hotel-0921-ibis-london-euston-st-pancras/location.shtml This event is being sponsored by the awesome guys at VersionOne. Many thanks to VersionOne for supporting the community and helping to make events like this possible! VersionOne is a global leader in agile ALM software solutions. Our mission is to help companies envision and deliver great software. We make scaling agile easier by combining product and platform with an ecosystem of agile training, consulting, and community resources. Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/
Open Source is undoubtably an extremely valuable part of our Software Industry. With more Developers embracing Open Source everyday, its important you should know the true value that lies within it. Covering the TRUE value of Open Source, this talk aims to educate and empower, whilst helping build our Open Sourcecommunity. Keynote presentation, with examples and real life win/loss stories. Who should attend: EVERYONE in the software industry. This applies to anyone who works with software. Bio: Robin Johnson -A Polyglot Programmer and Developer Evangelist at SendGrid, currently working amongst the world-wide developer community to ease the adoption of Email API technology. Having spoken at some of the world's leading technical conferences, Robin is building his way to being a key player in the London tech scene; attending, speaking at, and even helping organise multiple large events. Mentoring on topics such as Distributed Systems, Golang, NoSQL Databases and Open Source values; Robin is as much hacker as he is hustler.Agenda: 18:15: Doors open18:30: Main presentation (approx. 60 mins) We'll then be heading to the pub for drinks after the main talk. Please Note: Nearest tube: BarbicanNearest Coffee Shop: Sun Coffee Shop, 55-63 Goswell Road, London, EC1V 7EN for if you arrive early *Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link:https://skillsmatter.com/meetups/7015-the-value-of-open-source Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/
These days, it seems everyone is either using the Cloud Foundry PaaS or moving to support it. What's the big deal? Cloud Foundry is all about the slopey-shouldering of work to someone else - no more installing middleware, sorting out databases, and banging heads against complex deployments. This makes business sense, and it also makes a lot of sense for us as developers! With Cloud Foundry, an application can easily be deployed to a variety of managed clouds and scaled up and down as required. This talk will demonstrate how to get started with Cloud Foundry by live-coding an application (with a front-end, a back-end, and even a middle-bit) and then live-deploying it to the web. Who should attend: Junior developers and experienced developers who haven't used Cloud Foundry should both learn something. The talk is pitched at an introductory level. Bio: Holly Cummins is a senior software engineer with IBM Hursley. She is delivery lead for WebSphere Liberty Profile (which powers Java applications on Bluemix), and a committer on the Apache Aries project. She is a co-author of Enterprise OSGi in Action and has spoken at Devoxx, JavaZone, The ServerSide Java Symposium, JAX London, GeeCon, and the Great Indian Developer Summit, as well as a number of user groups. Agenda: 18:15: Doors open18:30: Main presentation (approx. 60 mins) We'll then be heading to the pub for drinks after the main talk. Please Note: Nearest tube: BarbicanNearest Coffee Shop: Sun Coffee Shop, 55-63 Goswell Road, London, EC1V 7EN for if you arrive early *Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: https://skillsmatter.com/meetups/7033-the-lazy-developer-s-guide-to-cloud-foundry Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/
Learn the new java.time API in Java SE 8 and how it will simplifyworking with date and time. The talk will introduce the API, teach youthe best way to use it and compare it to Joda-Time. If you are usingor moving Java SE 8, and ever use dates and times, you'll want to bethere! The talk will cover the single main topic of the java.time API in JavaSE 8. It will be a presentation with slides, and a few prettypictures. Who should attend: The talk is suitable for everyone who has ever struggled with datesand times, which is almost everyone... Bio: Stephen Colebourne was the co-spec lead of JSR-310 that developed thejava.time API. He also leads Joda-Time the de facto standard date andtime API for Java SE 7 and earlier. He is a Java Champion and JavaOneRock Star speaker. Agenda: 18:15: Doors open18:30: Lightning talk from a member of the LJC - "Enumerators: highly composable iterators in Java 8" presented by Marius Filip18:45: Main presentation (approx. 50 mins) We'll then be heading to the pub for drinks after the main talk. Please Note: Nearest tube: BarbicanNearest Coffee Shop: Sun Coffee Shop, 55-63 Goswell Road, London, EC1V 7EN for if you arrive early *Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link:https://skillsmatter.com/meetups/7016-date-and-time-in-java-se-8 Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/
This talk exposes some of the amazing things going on behind the sceneswhen you run a simple Java program on the OpenJDK Java Virtual Machine(JVM). You may learn more than you ever wanted to know about what theJVM does to make your life easy and your programs run fast. This mightjust convince you to rely on the JVM to do what it does well andconcentrate on your application design. Or it might make you want to digdeeper and start hacking on OpenJDK itself. The presentation is based entirely on slides and talk. It will includeone picture, strategic use of coloured text and the accumulated wisdomof four expert Java implementors and many person-years of bit-churningin the bowels of OpenJDK. Topics covered include: - OpenJDK and Java bytecode- The OpenJDK template interpreter- OpenJDK's two (count them, yes, two!) JIT compilers- A few special JVM tricks The talk will provide an overview of how OpenJDK's JVM operates in eachof these different areas. It will also explain how to use OpenJDK'sdiagnostic command line options to observe the JVM in operation andunderstand more about what it is doing as it runs your program. Who should attend: This talk is for Java developers of all levels of skill and experiencewho want to understand the power and magic of the tool they use everyday of their working lives. The slides will employ quite a few complexnotations (including some x86 machine code) which almost no-one in theaudience will know in toto. But Don't Panic! the gist will be explainedand you really don't need to understand the details to get the importantconcepts. Bring a towel if you think it will help. This talk will be of great interest to undergraduates who are studyingor would like to study virtual machines and compilation. It may alsointrigue those who are not yet aware of a burgeoning interest in thosetopics. Bio: Andrew Haley is a member of the OpenJDK Governing Board and leads theOpenJDK development team at Red Hat. Andrew Dinn is a member of Red Hat's OpenJDK development team and alsoleads project Byteman. Agenda: 18:15: Doors open18:30: Lightning talk from a member of the LJC - "Enumerators: highly composable iterators in Java 8" presented by Marius Filip18:45: Main presentation (approx. 50 mins + Q&A) We'll then be heading to the pub for drinks after the main talk. Please Note: Nearest tube: BarbicanNearest Coffee Shop: Sun Coffee Shop, 55-63 Goswell Road, London, EC1V 7EN for if you arrive early *Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link:https://skillsmatter.com/meetups/7026-what-lies-beneath-a-tour-of-the-dark-gritty-underbelly-of-openjdk Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/
hackthetower.co.ukis a hack day for any and all developers to come and collaborate on projects or discover new technologies together and enhance their skills. Bring your laptop and your desire to try things out & have fun! Note: Registration for this event closes the Monday before the date of the event, so we have time to add your names to the visitor list :( We are also co-hosting the Adopt Openjdk hackday. Come hack on the Java implementation that you use everyday! * Improved OpenJDK9 test coverage* OpenJDK Warnings cleanup* Small Bugs Fixes* The betterrev project If you're not familiar with the OpenJDKcodebase there will be people there to help you get started, including some from IBM who work on OpenJDK professionally. Rough Schedule You can get into the offices from around 9.45am onwards and have some breakfast and coffee, relax and take in the stunning view from the 26th & 27th floors of the Salesforce Tower (formerly known as the Heron Tower). 10.30am - Get together and discuss application ideas & things you want to try out.10.45am - Split into groups and get going1pm - Lunch time (sandwiches, fruit and drinks provided, requests taken)1.30pm onwards - Keep on hacking until you have had enough or want to go to the pub! Sign upPlease include a first and lastname when prompted to (if its not on your meetup profile) so we can register you with building security, otherwise you may have to wait in reception for a long time. Food & drink will be provided, thanks to our hosts Salesforce Sponsor message Start building & deploying your apps in the cloud with free developer environments fromdeveloper.salesforce.comandwww.heroku.com
Here are the details for the next stop in the Developer Sessions tour! The Developer Sessions are a series of social events where you can drink, code and meet other developers. There is always a mix of first timers and regular faces, with students to experienced developers and a very welcoming and supportive vibe. The events run every third Tuesday in the month and will be at a variety of locations around London, with the aim of being somewhere near you sometime soon. There is always a RecWorker at the event to offer free CV/career advice, or just have a chat to. If youd like them to look out for you, or if you have anything in particular youd like to talk about, please let Anj know on ac@recworks.co.uk. If you would like to see the Developer Sessions coming to your local pub please let us know. We are very keen to take the Developer Sessions to the places where they are wanted, and we need to hear from you if you feel that your area is not well represented in terms of tech events. Please note: This event will be held at The Bull, 100 Upper Street, London, N1 0NP http://www.thebullislington.co.uk/ Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/
This talk will demonstrate how to develop a Clojure application in record time. But we must also take care that our apps have strong architectural foundations, code organisation and structure. The best advice for programmers working on larger systems is to avoid tight-coupling between different parts of the system. What does it mean to avoid tight-coupling and why is it important? How can we structure applications as a set of modules, and how well does this approach lend itself to code re-use, and rapid development? The presentation will be done in my own presentation format, with some amount of live-coding. Slides will be available in PDF. Who should attend: This should be for anyone interested in writing real systems with the Clojure programming language, whether or not they have written any Clojure code. The concepts in this talk carry across more generally to other langauges, so working knowledge of Clojure is not mandatory. Bio: Malcolm Sparks has been thinking about, and building, modular architectures for medium-size software systems, for 15 years. During that time he won an award for his modular packaging technology used at IONA Technologies, consulted on modular build systems used at the BBC, and writes about and demonstrates modular software in Clojure at modularity.org. Malcolm is a co-founder of JUXT, a consultancy specialising in Clojure. Agenda: 18:15: Doors open18:30: Main presentation (approx. 60 mins) We'll then be heading to the pub for drinks after the main talk. Please Note: Nearest tube: BarbicanNearest Coffee Shop: Sun Coffee Shop, 55-63 Goswell Road, London, EC1V 7EN for if you arrive early *Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: https://skillsmatter.com/meetups/7065-real-apps-in-clojure-real-quick Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/
The thread, the familiar software unit of concurrency, cannot directly model the concurrency of many problem domains, as managing a very large number of threads introduces unacceptable overhead. As a result, developers of concurrent software have come up with various approaches for scalable concurrency from callbacks through promises to monads all to circumvent threads as models for a unit of concurrency. But threads are not the problem. They are a clear and familiar abstraction that closely matches how code is normally written in most programming languages. The problem is their implementation. By adopting relatively arcane programming paradigms, software developers are abandoning the right abstraction for wrong ones, simply because of an inadequate implementation. In this talk well explore how lightweight threads (AKA fibers) match a good abstraction with the right implementation. Well see how any asynchronous API can be turned into a fiber-blocking one, and what can be achieved when a unit of software concurrency (a thread) directly models a unit of problem concurrency (e.g. a request). Well demonstrate that simple, familiar code can attain the same levels of performance and scalability as other, rather convoluted constructs. Ill present [Quasar](https://github.com/puniverse/quasar), an open-source implementation of true lightweight threads on the JVM, and its various programming paradigms, like CSP and actors. Well see how more common patterns like Servlets are a good match for fibers, as well. Bio: Ron Pressler is the founder of Parallel Universe, a YC company building a JVM-based server-side stack for easily writing high-performance, low latency applications that work in harmony with modern hardware architecture rather than fight it. Prior to founding Parallel Universe, Ron was a developer and a software architect in the Israeli Air Force, where he developed and designed air-traffic control and missile-defense systems, as well as large, clustered physics simulations. Agenda: 18:30: Doors open18:30/45: Main presentation (approx. 1 hour + 30 mins of Q&A) We'll then be heading to the pub for drinks after the main talk. Please Note: Please refer to this map to find the room -http://www.ucl.ac.uk/maps?locationID=87 Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/
**Please note new address for this event. You'll need to place your name on this list to gain access to the venue: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1BXipETLcJKsnPACEmZ53bSxOUUhlAnFpcByeMLZyeq8/edit#gid=0 This presentation walks through the steps to build a full-fledged web-server from scratch to serve data for a web-app from a Raspberry Pi. 1. For back-end Java developers, this session provides a gentle introduction to development on Raspberry Pi and also, using front-end technologies like AngularJS and Bootstrap 2. For front-end developers, this session helps explore how to spin up a simple web-server on an embedded device like the Raspberry Pi and also, 3. For Raspberry Pi enthusiasts, this session provides another use-case of using the Pi. It walks through how to build a Java-based web-server This presentation will cover a range of technologies/ frameworks like Rasberry Pi, Resin, Docker, Gradle, NanoHTTPD, Angular, Bootstrap to all fit in together to make a beautiful webapp. It will be driven from a presentation but there will be some code snippets that I will be referring to throughout the talk. Who should attend: Anyone and everyone who wants to learn something new. Bio: Kaushik Chaubal works as a Java developer at BlackRock and loves trying out different frameworks and technologies. With his background of masters in Electrical and Computer Engineering from Carnegie Mellon University, he is passionate about devices and likes to mix hardware and software to create fun products. Agenda: Doors open: 6pm Talk starts: 6.30pm Talk end: 7.15pm To the pub: 7.30pm Please Note: **Please note new address for this event. You'll need to place your name on this list to gain access to the venue: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1BXipETLcJKsnPACEmZ53bSxOUUhlAnFpcByeMLZyeq8/edit#gid=0 Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/
For almost two decades weve used Java as the principal development language on the server-side, the advantages are numerous but the disadvantage that many people seem to overlook until they need to scale is the way it manages memory. Receive a message, process it, distribute it, search it, analyse it and save it and youve probably created, used and garbage collects around 50 times more memory than you really needed to. Come along and see how you can significant;y reduce this overhead, it not only speeds things up, it uses less resources. The talk will be slides, discussion and demos with code and IMDGs (In Memory Data Grids). Most of the code will be available on GitHub afterwards. Who should attend: This is really for senior developers, architects, enterprise architects especially and CTOs however it would not be above the level of any developer, it may simply not be a problem the average junior developer has come across yet. Bio: John Davies: Co-founder and CTO of C24 OMG, 30 years in technology! Hardware, assembler, C, C++ and almost 20 years of Java. From head of trading technology to global head of architecture in large investment banks, now co-founder and CTO of C24. Founded in 2000, sold to NASDAQs Iona Technologies in 2007 and bought back in 2011, C24 is an integration company working mainly in the investment banking world with standards like FIX, FpML, ISO-20022 and SWIFT. For the last year C24 has been developing a new binding technology (SDOs) that compacts messages in memory by as much as 50 times with no loss of performance, its already being used in the telco world to parse at over a million messages a second. Find John Davies athttps://twitter.com/jtdaviesandhttps://uk.linkedin.com/in/jdavies Agenda: 18:15: Doors open18:30: Main presentation (approx. 45/60 mins) We'll then be heading to the pub for drinks after the main talk. Please Note: Nearest tube: BarbicanNearest Coffee Shop: Sun Coffee Shop, 55-63 Goswell Road, London, EC1V 7EN for if you arrive early *Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link:https://skillsmatter.com/meetups/7108-java-is-killing-your-performance Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/
You get to learn how the JVM deals with bytecode under the hood! Live coding :) Who should attend: Any Java developer that hasn't used libraries like ASM with Java Agents to do fun things. Bio: Matt Painter is the brains behind the powerful functionality in the import.io tool. His innovative ideas have helped import.io create a tool that allows anyone to tap into the huge potential of data on the web. Matts primary responsibility is to oversee the technical strategy and product roadmap of the company. As CTO, he is dedicated to building a team of world-class engineers to keep import.io at the forefront of the industry. Prior to co-founding import.io, Matt was a consultant for Sapient and worked as Senior Engineer and Product Architect for Yahoo. - See more at: https://www.crunchbase.com/person/matt-painter#sthash.Ouv806gI.dpuf Agenda: 18:15: Doors open18:30/45: Main presentation (approx. 45 mins) We'll then be heading to the pub for drinks after the main talk. Please Note: Nearest tube: BarbicanNearest Coffee Shop: Sun Coffee Shop, 55-63 Goswell Road, London, EC1V 7EN for if you arrive early *Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: https://skillsmatter.com/meetups/7110-manipulating-class-bytecode-at-runtime Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/
I've never seen a job I didn't want to automate. Sometimes it's worked out well, sometimes automation has turned a small nuisance into a big, fragile, free-time-eating monster nuisance. In this talk, I'll explore why we automate, when to automate, the hazards of automation and the - big - rewards of automation. I'm part of the team developing IBM's WebSphere Liberty application server. We've used a mix of off-the-shelf and home-rolled tools and processes to work smarter and more productively. I'll describe what we've learned as WebSphere has transitioned to DevOps and continuous delivery and why I still can't resist trying to automate all the things. A slide presentation with stories. Who should attend: This talk doesn't assume any experience and should be of interest to both junior and experienced developers. Bio: Holly Cummins is the delivery lead for IBM WebSphere Application Server Liberty Profile. She is also a committer on the Apache Aries project. She is a co-author of Enterprise OSGi in Action and has spoken at Devoxx, JavaZone, The ServerSide Java Symposium, JAX London, GeeCon, and the Great Indian Developer Summit, as well as a number of user groups. Agenda: 18:15: Doors open18:30: Main presentation (45 mins approx) We'll then be heading to the pub for drinks after the main talk. Please Note: Nearest tube: BarbicanNearest Coffee Shop: Sun Coffee Shop, 55-63 Goswell Road, London, EC1V 7EN for if you arrive early *Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link:https://skillsmatter.com/meetups/7120-confessions-of-an-automation-addict Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/
Hi all, As part of the Adopt OpenJDK programme, Oracle is hosting a Java 9 REPL (aka project "Kulla") workshop for 20 LJC members to evaluate the current prototype and help shape its future! Some details on this feature can be found here: https://bugs.openjdk.java.net/browse/JDK-8043364 Instructions to install JDK 9 with Project Kulla will be distributed before the event (on this site). We are limited to 20 places and ideally we'd like to have a mix of: * People who have an existing project/idea that they'd like to try a Java REPL on.* People who have experience with REPLs in other languages* A couple of people who have never used a REPL So we'll limit numbers to begin with to make sure we have the right balance. The day will go roughly as follows: * 0930-0950 - People arrive and go through registration.* 1000 - Tea/Coffee & Introduction to the day* 1015-1045 - Introduction to the REPL including ideas on areas people can explore and how to provide feedback* 1045-1230 - Hacking on the REPL* 1300-1330 - Lunch* 1330-1600 - More hacking on the REPL (+ Tea / coffee at 1430)* 1600+ Wrap up and conclusions* 1700+ optional pub Thanks to Ruth, Simon, Gavin, Robert and Brian at Oracle for sponsoring and hosting this event. Cheers,Martijn
PLEASE NOTE THIS IS A JBUG EVENT NOT AN LJC EVENT. WE ARE USING THE LJC TO GENERATE PUBLICITY OF THE EVENT. TO GUARANTEE A PLACE YOU MUST REGISTER YOUR DETAILS HERE:http://www.c2b2.co.uk/london_jbug_april_2015 JBUG EVENT: Performance Tuning Applications with Wildfly AS Presentation Getting applications to meet customer expectations is difficult enough. Meeting and exceeding expectations can be elusive when response time and Service Level Agreements are incorporated into requirements. With applications deployed to Wildfly 8 (or Red Hat JBoss) application servers the task of monitoring and testing performance criteria can be made easy using benchmarking tools. Both benchmarking and systems monitoring allow organizations to detect issues and achieve deliverables. During this presentation we will use tools to create load, inspect metrics and tune Wildfly. Finishing with a look at the bigger picture of metrics collection and monitoring. Speaker Jeremy Whitingis a performance software engineer working at Red Hat and specialising on the popular Wildfly application server.,He contributes to a benchmarking harness called Faban and evolutions of the standardised JEE benchmark SPECjEnterprise. He lives and engineers code in London. Agenda 18:00 - 18:15 - Welcome, Refreshments and Networking18:15 - 18:30 - Lightning Talk -Debugging JBoss application performance using Java SE 8 (Hotspot) utilitiesby David Winters18:30 - 20:00 -'Performance Tuning Applications with Wildfly AS'by Jeremy Whiting + Q&A20:00 - 20:30 - Beer, Pizza and Networking Please note that to secure your place you have to register at the London JBUG Registration Page:http://www.c2b2.co.uk/london_jbug_april_2015
Here are the details for the next stop in the Developer Sessions tour! The Developer Sessions are a series of relaxed social events where you can meet up with other developers and do some coding. There is always a mix of first timers and regular faces, with students to experienced developers and a very welcoming and supportive vibe. The events run every third Tuesday in the month and will be at a variety of locations around London, with the aim of being somewhere near you sometime soon. There is always a RecWorker at the event to offer free CV/career advice, or just have a chat to. If youd like them to look out for you, or if you have anything in particular youd like to talk about, please let Anj know on ac@recworks.co.uk. If you would like to see the Developer Sessions coming to your local pub please let us know. We are very keen to take the Developer Sessions to the places where they are wanted, and we need to hear from you if you feel that your area is not well represented in terms of tech events. Please note: This event will be held at The Knights Templar, 95 Chancery Lane (Near Fleet Street), Off Carey Street, Chancery Lane, Greater London, WC2A 1DT http://www.jdwetherspoon.co.uk/home/pubs/the-knights-templar-chancery-lane# Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/
Presented by Simon Ritter. The two big new features in JDK8 are Lambda expressions and the Stream API. What these give Java developers is a way of writing Java code that is now more functional, rather than the imperative way that we are used to. To use these features effectively requires developers to "think differently". We need to stop thinking about processing data using explicit loops and instead move to the idea of data being processed as if it were in a pipeline. This session will use real world experience to show things you can do to use Streams correctly and some common pitfalls which don't exploit the full power of the Streams API and functional programming. The session will use sample applications to show how code should and should not be designed to use Lambda expressions and the Stream API. We will use PowerPoint slides to walk through the code being discussed. Who should attend: Any Java developer who wants to learn more about the powerful new features in JDK8 Bio: Simon Ritter manages the Java Technology Evangelist team at Oracle Corporation. Simon has been in the IT business since 1984 and holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Physics from Brunel University in the U.K. Originally working in the area of UNIX development for AT&T UNIX System Labs and then Novell, Simon moved to Sun in 1996. At this time he started working with Java technology and has spent time working both in Java development and consultancy. Having moved to Oracle as part of the Sun acquisition he now focuses on the core Java platform, Java for client applications and embedded Java. Agenda: 18:15: Doors open18:30: Main presentation - 1 hour approx We'll then be heading to the pub for drinks after the main talk. Please Note: Nearest tube: BarbicanNearest Coffee Shop: Sun Coffee Shop, 55-63 Goswell Road, London, EC1V 7EN for if you arrive early *Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link:https://skillsmatter.com/meetups/7127-jdk8-lambdas-and-streams-changing-the-way-you-think-when-developing-java Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/
**Please note this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place** 48HR RAFFLE: 5 free tickets to GraphConnect & 20% off tickets for everyone else We have been generously donated five free tickets for GraphConnect in London (7th May)to raffle to 5 lucky LJC members. Also we have a 20% discount code for those who don't win. The winners will be picked at random on 23rd April, and announced shortly afterwards. To enter simply RSVP to this event and answer the questions. Information from the organiser: Our friends at Neo4j (Michael copied) are hosting GraphConnect Europe on May 7 in London! This one-day conference focuses on the rapidly growing world of graph databases and their applications. The agenda features interesting use-cases from customers like adidas and Orange, as well as technical talks from graph community members. There are also several hands-on sessions and free one to one consulting with experts from Neo4j. You can save 20% on the ticket price with this link ( https://graphconnecteurope2014.eventbrite.com/?discount=meetup10 ) There is more information about GraphConnect Europe on the conference website (http://graphconnect.com/ ) regular updates from the Twitter account @GraphConnect. This prize does not include travel/accommodation costs. To enter simply RSVP to this event and answer the questions. Raffle organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/
This talk will answer the following questions: 1. What is Bitcoin and why should I care?2. How does Bitcoin work?3. How can I interact with Bitcoin using Java?4. What future applications could this enable? There will also be a live demo of the bitcoin network Who should attend: This talk should appeal to all Java programmers who are interested in what Bitcoin is and how it works. Bio: Nick Zeeb is a senior Java developer at LMAX Exchange. Nick has worked in finance since 2006 and has seen some interesting times while working at a hedge fund, an investment bank and now an exchange. He holds a Master's degree in Engineering and Computer Science from the University of Oxford. Bitcoin combines his passions for financial innovation as well as open source development. Agenda: 18:15: Doors open18:30/45: Main presentation (approx. 50 mins) We'll then be heading to the pub for drinks after the main talk. Please Note: Nearest tube: BarbicanNearest Coffee Shop: Sun Coffee Shop, 55-63 Goswell Road, London, EC1V 7EN for if you arrive early *Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link:https://skillsmatter.com/meetups/7094-programming-bitcoin-in-java Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/
**Please note this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place** 48HR RAFFLE: Two Free Tickets to Devoxx UK (June 17th - 19th / London) Hi there folks, Wed like to invite you to join us at Devoxx UK. The LJC runs through the veins of Devoxx UK and make it extraordinary (have you seen the theme this year) and we thought it only fair to give some of the love back. Weve got two free tickets up for grabs for what is now an awesome 3 day event, taking place June 17th -19th. You can catch speakers such as Mark Reinhold, Antonio Goncalvez, Trisha Gee, Patrick Chanezon, David Delabasse, Gerrit Grunwald, and many more To enter you need to RSVP to this event and answer the questions! And the winners will be announced On Tuesday 28th April. If you dont win dont worry, well also offer the LJC a special 25% discount off Devoxx UK tickets which you can redeem once the raffle is decided. This prize does not include travel/accommodation costs. To enter simply RSVP to this event and answer the questions. Raffle organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/
hackthetower.co.ukis a hack day for any and all developers to come and collaborate on projects or discover new technologies together and enhance their skills. Bring your laptop and your desire to try things out & have fun! Note: Registration for this event closes the Monday before the date of the event, so we have time to add your names to the visitor list :( We are also co-hosting the Adopt Openjdk hackday. Come hack on the Java implementation that you use everyday! * Improved OpenJDK9 test coverage* OpenJDK Warnings cleanup* Small Bugs Fixes* The betterrev project If you're not familiar with the OpenJDKcodebase there will be people there to help you get started, including some from IBM who work on OpenJDK professionally. Rough Schedule You can get into the offices from around 9.45am onwards and have some breakfast and coffee, relax and take in the stunning view from the 26th & 27th floors of the Salesforce Tower (formerly known as the Heron Tower). 10.30am - Get together and discuss application ideas & things you want to try out.10.45am - Split into groups and get going1pm - Lunch time (sandwiches, fruit and drinks provided, requests taken)1.30pm onwards - Keep on hacking until you have had enough or want to go to the pub! Sign upPlease include a first and lastname when prompted to (if its not on your meetup profile) so we can register you with building security, otherwise you may have to wait in reception for a long time. Food & drink will be provided, thanks to our hosts Salesforce Sponsor message Start building & deploying your apps in the cloud with free developer environments fromdeveloper.salesforce.comandwww.heroku.com
Lets face it. Creating websites with complex forms is a pain, and usually ends in lots of code duplication and frustration. And even though it's the age of big data and microservices, form-based applications still take a large share of our development time. Thats why we have decided to create Supler, a Rapid Form Development library. Supler has a very focused set of functionality: * a Scala DSL for defining forms, generating JSON form description, applying values to backing objects and running actions & validations on the backend * a Javascript HTML form renderer, automatically-generated client-side validations, form templating and automatic reloading You can use Supler with any Javascript frontend and Scala/Java backend framework, ORM layer, etc. The software stack is left up to the developer. The presentation will be entirely live coding. We will create a simple form-based application from scratch and gradually introduce various Supler features. At the same time, we will explain what approach Supler takes and how Supler solves some of the problems faced when creating a form-based applications. Who should attend: I think the talk will be of most interest to developers who write back-office software and web applications, at all levels of experience, from junior to senior. However anybody who wrote both the frontend and the backend of a web application should find the topic interesting. As the subject is on how to write form-based applications easier, it would be great if people with experience in the area would contribute their point of view! Please note that having Scala experience is not a requirement, anybody with Java knowledge should be able to understand the examples, we won't be using advanced Scala language features, and even if, I'll be happy to explain how things work. Bio -Adam Warski: I am one of the co-founders of SoftwareMill, where I code mainly using Scala and other interesting technologies. I am involved in open-source projects, such as Supler, MacWire, Hibernate Envers and ElasticMQ. I have been a speaker at major conferences, such as JavaOne, Devoxx, JavaZone or JFokus. Apart from writing closed- and open-source software, in my free time I try to read the Internet on various programming-related subjects, any ideas or insights end up on my blog: http://www.warski.org/blog Agenda: 18:15: Doors open 18:30/45: Main presentation (approx. 45/60 mins) We'll then be heading to the pub for drinks after the main talk. Please Note: Nearest tube: BarbicanNearest Coffee Shop: Sun Coffee Shop, 55-63 Goswell Road, London, EC1V 7EN for if you arrive early *Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link:https://skillsmatter.com/meetups/7128-supler-complex-web-forms-not-so-complex Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/
In this matching pair of talks, industry veterans Ron Hitchens and Peter Rodgers will challenge your assumptions about software, software engineering and the way you go about designing and building software systems. Ron will start off by questioning the wisdom of modelling everything as objects. Hell look at how we got here, the problem space objects were invented to solve, why typical object models are often problematic, and alternative approaches. The article Rons talk is based on can be found here: http://overstory.co.uk/whitepapers/ Peter will then give an introduction to Resource Oriented Computing. ROC sprang from research done at Hewlett-Packard Labs over a decade ago. Peter led an effort to find out why so many large software projects fail, but some, like the World Wide Web, dont. The end result was Resource Oriented Computing, which is built on resources, messages and spaces -- ROC was REST before REST was cool. This talk will explain what that means and how ROC makes it easy to built massively scalable, robust systems. Info about ROC and NetKernel can be found here: http://www.1060research.com This talk should be of interest to anyone with an interest in programming, software design, software architecture or building robust systems. We will question some assumptions about Object Oriented Programming, look at why some software systems fail and some succeed, and talk about the under-appreciated resource and space metaphors. Who should attend: This should be of interest to everyone, from junior develops up to senior architects and beyond. Engineering Managersand CTOs would also find it of interest. Bios: Ron Hitchens: Ron is Founder and Principal Consultant at OverStory LLP, a London-based consultancy specializing in system architecture, design and delivery services centered around REST, MarkLogic, Semantics and Resource Oriented principles. Ron is a Sun/Oracle Java Champion, A JavaOne Rockstar and author of several books including Java NIO (OReilly). OverStory works with companies in the UK and around the world. Contact Ron via ron@overstory.co.uk or @ronhitchens Peter Rodgers: Peter Rodgers is the architect of NetKernel and the father of ResourceOriented Computing. Peter started his research into ROC at HewlettPackard Labs. When trying to build very large scale software solutions,he discovered that he could afford to "build-one" but the long-tailcost of software dwarves the headline costs. Agenda: 18:15: Doors open 18:30: Main presentations -Your Object Model Sucks - Ron (about 45 minutes)"Introduction to Resource Oriented Computing" -Peter (about 45 minutes) We'll then be heading to the pub for drinks after the main talk. Please Note: Nearest tube: BarbicanNearest Coffee Shop: Sun Coffee Shop, 55-63 Goswell Road, London, EC1V 7EN for if you arrive early *Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: https://skillsmatter.com/meetups/7129-your-object-model-sucks-an-introduction-to-resource-oriented-computing Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/
Its certainly fashionable to "be reactive", but what does it mean? How does reactive look in practice? Akka contains a number of more or less experimental modules, with which we can create a [Responsive, Resilient, Elastic, Message driven]-application. We will see how various Akka features help in implementing the above traits. During the presentation there will be a short introduction to the reactive manifesto, followed by writing a reactive application using Akka core, Akka Cluster, Akka Streams and Akka Persistence. The presentation will be entirerly a live coding session, during which we will create a "reactive" application using Akka as the base toolkit. We will see how the various traits defined in the Reactive Manifesto can be implemented in practice using various Akka modules. Who should attend: Anybody who is interested in "reactive systems (whats behind the marketing) and/or Scala&Akka should find the presentation relevant. Bio - Adam Warski: I am one of the co-founders of SoftwareMill, where I code mainly using Scala and other interesting technologies. I am involved in open-source projects, such as Supler, MacWire, Hibernate Envers and ElasticMQ. I have been a speaker at major conferences, such as JavaOne, Devoxx, JavaZone or JFokus. Apart from writing closed- and open-source software, in my free time I try to read the Internet on various programming-related subjects, any ideas or insights end up on my blog: http://www.warski.org/blog Agenda: 18:15: Doors open18:30: Main presentation - (60-90 minutes) We'll then be heading to the pub for drinks after the main talk. Please Note: Nearest tube: BarbicanNearest Coffee Shop: Sun Coffee Shop, 55-63 Goswell Road, London, EC1V 7EN for if you arrive early *Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link:https://skillsmatter.com/meetups/7141-implementing-the-reactive-manifesto-with-akka Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/
**Please note this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place** 48HR RAFFLE: 3 Free Tickets to WSO2Con EU 2015 (1-3 June / London) We have been generously donated 3 free tickets forWSO2Con EU 2015in London (1-3 June)to raffle to 3 lucky LJC members. Also we have a 20% discount code for those who don't win -WCELJC20.The winners will be picked at random at the start of next week, and announced shortly afterwards. To enter simply RSVP to this event and answer the questions. Information from the organiser: WSO2Con EU 2015 provides 3 full days of insightful sessions on ground-breaking enterprise technology, and how customers our taking advantage of WSO2s innovative solutions to thrive in todays connected world. Where: Park Plaza Victoria London When: 1-3 June Who we are: We are a global corporation that provides 100% open source middleware solutions under Apache license. We are the only company to provide a complete middleware stack including cloud computing solutions (on-premise, private cloud, and public cloud). Global organizations such as eBay and AAA rely on our software for their day-to-day operations. Here is whats in store at WSO2Con EU: -Exciting customer talks by HP Italy, HMRC, e-Government Center of Moldova, Experian, Capgemini and many more-Dedicated Conference tracks for API management, integration, security, IoT, analytics, and cloud-Dedicated industry related tracks for connected services, telcos, ecosystems, and finance-Fun networking events and conference after parties to mingle with the most innovative thinkers Conference Agenda is available on http://eu15.wso2con.com/ This prize does not include travel/accommodation costs. To enter simply RSVP to this event and answer the questions. Please don't forget we have a 20% discount code for those who don't win -WCELJC20 Raffle organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/
If project duration is of no consequence, you should design your project for lowest cost. But if cost is immaterial, you should design it for the least duration. The best solution for every project lies between these two extremes, yet finding it is a highly engineered design task. This session will provide you with the tools and techniques required to achieve a balanced and even optimal solution, enabling you to determine best overall plan for your system while eliminating gambling, death marches, wishful thinking, and expensive trial and errors. The session starts with the basic knowledge of path concepts such as network design, resource allocations and floats, and will expand on these essentials to include finding your project time/cost curve, network compression techniques, activity crashing, risk analysis, staffing distribution options and project design. You will also see a comprehensive case study and walk through its various permutations in determining the best plan that will keep the project on time all the time at the best risk and cost available. About Juval LowyJuval Lwy is the founder of IDesign and a master software architect specializing in system and project design. Juval has mentored hundreds of architects across the globe, sharing his insights, techniques, and breakthroughs, in architecture, project design, development process, and technology. Juval is Microsofts Regional Director for the Silicon Valley and had participated in the Microsoft internal strategic design reviews for C#, WCF and related technologies. Juval is a frequent speaker at the major international software development conferences. Juval published several bestsellers, and his latest book is the fourth edition of Programming WCF Services (O'Reilly 2015). Juval published numerous articles, regarding almost every aspect of modern software development and architecture. Microsoft recognized Juval as a Software Legend as one of the world's top experts and industry leaders. IDesign training courses in London: Architect's Master Class - 19th - 23rd October 2015 Project Design Master Class - 13th - 17th July 2015 Architecture Clinic - 7th - 11th December 2015 This meet-up has been organised by the good people at: Learning Connexions@LearnConnexionsandRecWorks @RecWorks(London Java Community @ljcjug)
hackthetower.co.ukis a hack day for any and all developers to come and collaborate on projects or discover new technologies together and enhance their skills. Bring your laptop and your desire to try things out & have fun! Note: Registration for this event closes the Tuesday before the date of the event, so we have time to add your names to the visitor list :( Clojure web apps workshop continues this month We are also co-hosting the Adopt Openjdk hackday. Come hack on the Java implementation that you use everyday! * Improved OpenJDK9 test coverage* OpenJDK Warnings cleanup* Small Bugs Fixes* The betterrev project If you're not familiar with the OpenJDKcodebase there will be people there to help you get started, including some from IBM who work on OpenJDK professionally. Rough Schedule You can get into the offices from around 9.45am onwards and have some breakfast and coffee, relax and take in the stunning view from the 26th & 27th floors of the Salesforce Tower (formerly known as the Heron Tower). 10.30am - Get together and discuss application ideas & things you want to try out.10.45am - Split into groups and get going1pm - Lunch time (sandwiches, fruit and drinks provided, requests taken)1.30pm onwards - Keep on hacking until you have had enough or want to go to the pub! Sign upPlease include a first and lastname when prompted to (if its not on your meetup profile) so we can register you with building security, otherwise you may have to wait in reception for a long time. Food & drink will be provided, thanks to our hosts Salesforce Sponsor message Start building & deploying your apps in the cloud with free developer environments fromdeveloper.salesforce.comandwww.heroku.com
Got something you want to talk to other developers about? Some code youve been crafting? Views on new tech that you want to discuss? Want some input on issues youre having with an open source project? Then the Developer Sessions - Round a Table could be for you. The Developer Sessions - Round a Table is primarily an opportunity to get together in an informal and social setting. This month we are taking inspiration from the London Software Craftmanship Community Round-tables, and well start the evening with a discussion, after which people are welcome to stay, chat and socialise. Itll work like this On arrival, members will be asked if they have a topic theyd like to discuss, and well note the suggested topics. Theres no requirement to have a subject to suggest but we expect that there will be at least four or five topics to choose from. When the list of suggestions is complete well divide into interest groups for focused discussions. There wont be an agenda or any requirement to reach a conclusion or agree an action; no record will be made, and the discussions can be as long, or as short, as people like/need. Once the discussions have reached a natural conclusion, people are welcome to join the general group. As the evening is informal, we are not providing any audio-visual or presentation equipment, so if you have something you want to share, please bring your own laptop. The venues we use do have wifi. There will be a RecWorker at the event to offer free CV/career advice, or just have a chat to. If youd like them to look out for you, or if you have anything in particular youd like to talk about, please let Anj know on ac@recworks.co.uk Please note: This event will be held at The Rising Sun,44 / 46 EBURY BRIDGE ROAD, PIMLICO, LONDON, SW1W 8PZ -http://www.risingsunpimlico.co.uk/index.html Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/
Continuous Deployment has been key to increase the pace at which development teams can deliver value to the business while keeping quality high. However, as applications mature, many teams are finding that CD becomes harder as the application grows. Many of them resolve to break down the application into independent components that they develop separately and then integrate manually, therefore making their deployment a little less continuous. In this talk I show a way in which CD can be easily scaled up so you can keep growing your application without sacrificing quality. The talk will include real-life examples built with Java, Maven, TeamCity, Subversion and Artifactory, but most of the ideas presented can be easily transferred to other technologies. Finally, I will introduce the term Build-Driven Architecture as a natural evolution of Conti nuous Deployment, and explain how Build-Driven Architecture could shape software development in the future. The talk will firstly touch upon the topic of Continuous Deployment, although attendees will benefit from having some previous knowledge (they don't need to be experts though). Then we will move to the technicalities of making Continuous Deployment work with Maven, and from there on how to scale it to as the project grows. This will be presented through a set of slides with some code snippets and examples from real projects. Who should attend: Although everybody is encouraged to attend, the topic will be most relevant to those with some experience setting up or working with Continuous Deployment environments; knowledge or experience in Continuous Integration will also help. Bio: Abraham Marin-Perez is a Java programmer and enthusiastic agilist. Abraham's main focus is finding out what maximises a team's capacity to deliver in the long term, looking at the technical aspects (like fully automated CI/CD) to the psychological ones (like matching personality types), and then everything in between. Given his broad reach he often finds himself exploring unchartered territory, and then shares his experiences in his blog: fromfragiletoagile.com Agenda: 18:15: Doors open 18:30: Main presentation - 1 hour approx We'll then be heading to the pub for drinks after the main talk. Please note that we will all be paying for our own drinks. Please Note: Nearest tube: BarbicanNearest Coffee Shop: Sun Coffee Shop, 55-63 Goswell Road, London, EC1V 7EN for if you arrive early *Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: https://skillsmatter.com/meetups/7152-scalable-continuous-deployment-with-maven This event is being sponsored by the awesome guys at Pluralsight. Many thanks to Pluralsight for supporting the community and helping meet the costs involved to make events like this possible! Pluralsight is the global leader in online learning for professional software developers, IT specialists and creative technologists. With nearly 4,000 courses, Pluralsight serves as a career catalyst, delivering hands-on, practical training for the most in-demand and understaffed jobs of today - www.pluralsight.com Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/
Speaking at well recognised software conferences can be a great boost to your career. It opens up new career or business opportunities and gives you the opportunity to meet new people. Not to mention the ability to attend a conference for free. Most conferences have a Call for Papers. Its easy, just send your awesome bio and abstract, wait a couple of weeks/months and voila, youll be a speaker :-) Not so fast! Some conferences get a lot of submissions Lets hear it from the people who review these talks everyday. What does the review process look like, how to make your abstract stand out, and all the other things you might have been afraid to, but always wanted to ask! Panel: Daniel Bryant @danielbryantukAndrzej Grzesik @ags313Richard Warburton @richardwarburtoMartijn Verburg @karianna Bios: Daniel Bryant is a Principal Consultant at OpenCredo, and specialises in enabling agility within organisations. His current work includes introducing better requirement gathering and planning techniques, focusing on the relevance of architecture within agile development, and facilitating continuous integration/delivery. Daniels current technical expertise focuses on 'DevOps tooling, Cloud platforms and microservice implementations. He is also a leader within the London Java Community (LJC), contributes to several open source projects, writes for well-known technical websites, and regularly presents at international conferences such as JavaOne, Devoxx and FOSDEM. Andrzej Grzesik:I like programming. I do it a lot, mostly on the JVM, usually writing fancy backends for big, distributed systems. I also display a particular affection to continuous delivery.. UI, unless quickly hacked, is not my play ;-) I believe that most problems we deal with are people problems, so I mix and match tools with technologies to achieve my goals, make people happy and achieve world peace :-) I believe in software quality, and organize GeeCON, Polish JUG, Krakow Software Craftsmanship, Cracow Hadoop User Group. In my free time, I read paper books and cycle, a lot! Richard Warburtonis an empirical technologist and solver of deep-dive technical problems and works independently as a Software Engineer and Trainer. Recently he has written a book on Java 8 Lambdas for OReilly and teaches people via http://java8training.com and Pluralsight. Hes worked as a developer in diverse areas including Statistical Analytics, Static Analysis, Compilers and Network Protocols. He is a leader in the London Java Community and runs Java Hackdays. Richard is also a known conference speaker, having talked at Devoxx, JavaOne, JFokus, Devoxx UK, Geecon, Oredev, JAX London and Codemotion. He obtained a PhD in Computer Science from The University of Warwick. Martijn Verburg (aka The Diabolical Developer) is a technical community leader and trouble maker. By day he's the CEO of jClarity, a Java/JVM performance tuning product company and by night he's the co-leader for the London Java Community (LJC) where he sits on the Java standards body (JCP) and helps run a host of related community programmes such as Adopt a JSR and Adopt OpenJDK. Martijn is an author and regular conference speaker at conferences around the world where he challenges the status quo as the Diabolical Developer. Who should attend: Anyone - from students at the beginning of their university course, through graduates and other new entrants to the tech industry to experienced developers - who is interested in finding out how speaking at international conferences can boost their career and open up new opportunities Agenda: 18:15: Doors open18:30: Main presentation - 1 hour + Q&A time We'll then be heading to the pub for drinks Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/
We ran a similar session around developing interview skills in February 2015. People said: Excellent session. Best 2 hours I've invested in a long time. Glad there were hiring managers from small/medium size companies, as well as big corporations to get a good idea of the difference in hiring processes. Would definitely be interested in future sessions like these ...so we are running another! This event forms part of a series of events we are running around the theme of Career Hacking.http://blog.recworks.co.uk/career-hacking/ The session offers the rare opportunity to sit down with hiring managers (wise folk) that areNOTrecruiting so you arent focussed on trying to impress them. Instead, you have the chance to ask them the questions that you really want answered before your next interview, such as: - What makes a candidate stand out from the crowd? - What common mistakes do they see on CVs? - What really drives them mad in interviews? The answers to these questions are often highly subjective and based around a hiring managers personal experience, so we are setting up a panel of hiring managers so you can hear a variety of opinions to these questions so that you can put yourself in the mind of a hiring manager and improve your chances of getting to your career destination as soon as possible. The event will work in a speed-mentoring format, which means youll sit in small groups of 5-10 people then hiring managers will go from group to group for about 15 minutes giving you a brief introduction then answering any questions you have around the recruitment process. This interactive session will be equally valuable whether you missed the February session, or came along to that but have more questions to ask, so sign up early to make sure of your place. RecWorks have organised this event, so as usual we will be onsite to help out and answer questions from our perspective as recruiters. Please see this map for location details -http://www.ucl.ac.uk/maps/foster-court Rooms 130, 132 & 233, Foster Court, off Malet Place, WC1E 7JE. Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check us our jobs here:http://jobs.recworks.co.uk/
PLEASE NOTE THIS IS A GUG EVENT NOT AN LJC EVENT. WE ARE USING THE LJC TO GENERATE PUBLICITY OF THE EVENT. TO GUARANTEE A PLACE YOU MUST REGISTER YOUR DETAILS HERE:http://www.payara.co.uk/java_ee_glassfish_user_group_june_2015 Developing Java EE 7 Based Applications Using Payara Micro Building on the Java EE 7 support of its GlassFish 4.1 core, Payara Micro enables you to run Java EE 7 based applications from the command line without any application server installation. In this hands-on workshop/tutorial, we will provide you with an overview ofPayara Micro and the services offered by this distribution from Payara. Furthermore, we will walk you through how to setup, develop and use Payara Micro to run applications deployed in a Payara Micro cluster. This hands-on workshop will give you a unique opportunity to play around with the newest release of the Badass Fish - Payara Micro! Supported by David Winters, Payara Engineer, you will be able to try the new application server to see whats new, and learn all of its exciting new features! As usual, beer and pizza will be provided to fuel you up for the two hours of Payara-hacking :) We will also be giving away two Payara goodie bags at the end of the event! Speaker David Wintersis a Senior Support Engineer at Payara. He has over 9 years support and development experience working on various Java EE frameworks and business critical applications for customers across multiple industry domains. Dave has a keen interest in performance tuning of middleware and EAI technologies, and furthering his knowledge of data analyticsusing machine learning tools and algorithms to perform predictive analytics on different problem types. What is Payara Micro? Payara Micro is our first release of a new way of running Java EE applications. Building on the Java EE 7 support of its GlassFish 4.1 core Payara Micro enables you to run war files from the command line without any application server installation. java -jar payara-micro.jar --deploy test.war Thats not all! Using the Hazelcast integration each Payara Micro process will automagically cluster with other Payara Micro processes on the network, giving web session resilience and a fully distributed data cache using Payaras JCache support. Why Payara Micro? Payara Micro is small, only 57MB in size and incredibly simple to use. With its automatic and elastic clustering it is designed for running Java EE applications in a modern containerized/virtualized infrastructure using automated provisioning tools like Chef, Ansible or Puppet. As each Payara Micro server will automatically cluster with other servers on the network your Java EE application can be elastically scaled horizontally by adding and removing containers based on demand. How do I get Payara Micro? Payara Micro is available fromour downloads page Find out more about Payara Micro! Introducing Payara MicroWhat's New in Payara[masked] Agenda 18:00 - 18:15 - Welcome and Networking18:15 - 20:15 - 'Developing Java EE 7 Based Applications Using Payara Micro hands on workshop/tutorial with David Winters; beer & pizza from 19:00.20:15 - 20:30 Wrap-up & Payara goodie bag raffle. PLEASE NOTE THIS IS A GUG EVENT NOT AN LJC EVENT. WE ARE USING THE LJC TO GENERATE PUBLICITY OF THE EVENT. TO GUARANTEE A PLACE YOU MUST REGISTER YOUR DETAILS HERE:http://www.payara.co.uk/java_ee_glassfish_user_group_june_2015
LJC members are invited to join Devoxx UK on the evening of Wednesday 17th June. IMPORTANT - To gain access to the event you MUST leave your full name when you RSVP - Thank! Guided lab: Learn about usage, performance, and availability with Microsoft Application Insights 18:45 21:30 How much do you know about the performance and availability of your Java app? How do you detect issues and diagnose crashes? What does your actual user behavior look like? Application Insights is a new service from Microsoft that provides end-to-end insights into availability, performance, and usage of your Java application, no matter where its running (on-premises, AWS, Azure, etc.). After a brief overview of Azure and Application Insights, well spend the evening working hands-on to implement Applications Insights on your own app or sample code. Come for the pizza and beer, stay for the deep insight into application performance. BOF sessions: 18:45 19:45 Java Beans v2.0 ? with Stephen Colebourne TheJavaBeans specification is truly from another era with many arcane rules, yetthe intentions behind the specstill power most Java applications. Since wearen't getting a properties language feature in Java any time soon,couldsomething be done in the libraries to make the pain of beans slightly less?What might a Beans v2.0 speclook like? Come along to find out what has beendone so far and to see if it works for you! Stephen Colebourne is a Java Champion and JavaOne Rock Star speaker. He has been working with Java since version 1.0 and contributing to open source software since 2000. He has made major contributions to Apache Commons and created the Joda open source projects including Joda-Time. He blogs on Java topics and was co-spec lead on JSR-310 which added java.time to Java SE 8. The art of clean commits with Git & other useful practices with John Stevenson If you have taken the time to learn something as powerful as Git, then you owe it to yourself to learn how to use it to greater effect. Ask yourself thesequestions: Can you read your Git history easily and quickly make sense of it all? Are you happy to show your history off on your wallboard? Can you bug fixregressions missed by your compiler & tests by quickly scanning the history & quickly creating a patch? Can you merge your commits with joy, cherrypicking with ease where needed? Are your commit messages like poetry, or at least something meaningful and just flow from your fingertips? Do youunderstand where rebasing can be useful, even though it can be incredibly evil too If you fill with dread at these questions, then come and discuss some approaches that should help. If you have all this well under control, come alongand share how you do it. Covering a range of practices, tools, techniques, we will discuss how to make better use of tools like Git and avoid wasting time on bug hunting,merging and deploying. John Stevenson is a developer for Heroku/Salesforce, loves Clojure, cats, community and agile development Java EE with David Delabassee Calling all the Java enthusiasts (and non enthusiasts too) to gather and discuss the upcoming release of Java EE, Java EE 8. David Delabassee is a Software Evangelist working in the GlassFish and Java EE Team at Oracle. Prior to that, he spent more than 10 years at Sun Microsystems focusing on Java end-to-end (from the smart card to the high end server) and the developer tools. He has been involved in Java projects since the early days of this technology. In his spare time, he enjoy tinkering and playing with technologies such as Java, Arduino, Home Automation, Linux, Pinball, etc. Who should attend? All LJC members should be able to benefit from attending. Those with live Java app projects looking for some great free insights should find the lab of particular interest. BOFs (Birds of a Feather sessions) are informal evening sessions lasting 1 hour and designed for audience participation. Its up to you how involved you get. Agenda: 18:00 : Doors open & drinks 18:45 : Sessions start Where? Business Design Centre 52 Upper Street Islington London N1 0QH Nearest tube: Angel IMPORTANT - To gain access to the event you MUST leave your full name when you RSVP - Thank!
OpenGamma, a modern Java 8 based open-source toolkit for market risk - Stephen Colebourne Is your profiler speaking the same language as you? - Simon Maple We are pleased to bring you news of the inaugural event of the Docklands.LJC: a group within the main London Java Community that will be focusing on the developer community in and around Docklands #dljcjug The Docklands.LJC will meet on the 2nd Tuesday of each month. At this opening event we are delighted to have two excellent speakers coming to talk. OpenGamma, a modern Java 8 based open-source toolkit for market risk - Stephen Colebourne An Open Source toolkit for market risk? Yes! OpenGamma provides open source software for market risk, as a leading provider of OTC market structure solutions. This talk will cover our soon-to-be-released next-generation toolkit, engineered for ease of use and performance. Written in Java 8, it provides key components for market risk application development, from time-series and schedules to market data and reporting, for a range of asset classes. Come along to this talk to learn more about OpenGamma, how we build our software, and how we make best use of Java 8 in a modern software stack. Is your profiler speaking the same language as you? - Simon Maple Profilers are absolute beasts. And profilers might prove useful to pinpoint the performance issues in your Java applications. By using profilers, developers are fortunate to find the root cause of an issue at hand. However, it requires effort to actually comprehend the data collected by the profiler. Due to the inherent complexity of the data, one has to understand how this data is collected. And thus understand how the profiler actually works. During this talk we will go through the classic profiler features. What is a hotspot? What is the difference between sampling and instrumentation from the profiler point of view? What are the problems with either of those methods? What is the time budget of the application? And more! I will also showcase a new kid on the block among the profiling tools: XRebel. This tool provides insight into application behaviour and permits the developers to discover application level issues. Who should attend: Anyone who is interested in Java or JVM based technologies, whether in the Docklands or further afield, is welcome to attend Bios: Stephen Colebourne is Engineering Lead, Platform at OpenGamma. Prior to OpenGamma, Stephen worked at Sun Alliance insurance and airline IT co-operative SITA. He is best known for his work in open source and his blog. He played a major part in Apache Commons Lang, Collections and IO leading to membership of the Apache Software Foundation. He also created Joda-Time which was refined via JSR-310 to form the java.time API in Java SE 8. He contributes to debates on the future of Java, including proposals for the diamond operator for generics and FCM closures, both of which are close to the adopted changes in Java 7 and 8. Stephen is a frequent conference speaker, JavaOne Rock Star and Java Champion. Simon Maple is a Developer Advocate at ZeroTurnaround, and is all about community discussion and interaction. His passion around technical communities led him to become the founder and organiser of the vJUG (virtualJUG), as well as continuing to be an active leader of the London Java Community (LJC). Simons energy in building and driving the Java community forward culminated in him becoming a Java Champion in 2014. Previously, Simon worked for IBM for almost 12 years, testing, developing and evangelising WebSphere Application Server. He is an experienced speaker, having presented at JavaOne, DevoxxUK, DevoxxFR, IBM Impact, JDC, JMaghreb and many more (including the vJUG :), and is a keen technical writer for RebelLabs. Please note: This event is being hosted by Alex Blewitt at Credit Suisse, One Cabot Square, E14 4QJ. https://www.google.com/maps/place/1+Cabot+Square,+Poplar,+London+E14+4QJ,+UK/@51.5057096,-0.0233693,17z/data=!3m1!4b1!4m2!3m1!1s0x487602c81de34389:0x3624c8154d1063f7?hl=en Arrive from 18:30, talks will start at 18:45. Advance registration through Meetup is required. Nearest stop Canary Wharf Nearest coffee shop Caf Brera, One Canada Square, Cabot Place, for if you arrive early.
hackthetower.co.ukis a hack day for any and all developers to come and collaborate on projects or discover new technologies together and enhance their skills. Bring your laptop and your desire to try things out & have fun! Note: Registration for this event closes the Tuesday before the date of the event, so we have time to add your names to the visitor list :( Another Clojure workshop will run this month We are also co-hosting the Adopt Openjdk hackday. Come hack on the Java implementation that you use everyday! * Improved OpenJDK9 test coverage* OpenJDK Warnings cleanup* Small Bugs Fixes* The betterrev project If you're not familiar with the OpenJDKcodebase there will be people there to help you get started, including some from IBM who work on OpenJDK professionally. Rough Schedule You can get into the offices from around 9.45am onwards and have some breakfast and coffee, relax and take in the stunning view from the 26th & 27th floors of the Salesforce Tower (formerly known as the Heron Tower). 10.30am - Get together and discuss application ideas & things you want to try out.10.45am - Split into groups and get going1pm - Lunch time (sandwiches, fruit and drinks provided, requests taken)1.30pm onwards - Keep on hacking until you have had enough or want to go to the pub! Sign upPlease include a first and lastname when prompted to (if its not on your meetup profile) so we can register you with building security, otherwise you may have to wait in reception for a long time. Food & drink will be provided, thanks to our hosts Salesforce Sponsor message Start building & deploying your apps in the cloud with free developer environments fromdeveloper.salesforce.comandwww.heroku.com
Presented byAslak Hellesy.Behaviour-Driven Development (BDD) is a collaborative approach to software development that bridges the communication gap between business and IT. BDD helps teams communicate requirements with more precision, discover defects early and produce software that remains maintainable over time. The BDD approach enhances agile methodologies such as Scrum or Kanban. I will give a brief overview of the history of BDD, and the high level practices. Then I will introduce Gherkin, the plain English syntax for executable specifications. After this I will show how those specifications can be used to guide the development of the business logic for a social network. I will finish off by presenting some sound architectural patterns that also makes BDD easier. Who should attend: The talk is suitable for developers at all levels. Bio: Aslak Hellesy is the creator of Cucumber (10M downloads) and the author of the Cucumber Book (20k copies sold). He has 18 years of development experience and has been active in the open source and agile communities for 15 years. Agenda: 18:15: Doors open 18:30 - 19:30: Main presentation Please Note: Nearest tube: BarbicanNearest Coffee Shop: Sun Coffee Shop, 55-63 Goswell Road, London, EC1V 7EN for if you arrive early *Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link:https://skillsmatter.com/meetups/7255-behaviour-driven-development-with-cucumber-jvm Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/ Continue the conversation at our Slack Group:londonjavacommunity.slack.com- Sign up here if you're not a member:https://barrycranford.typeform.com/to/IIyQxd
Steve Elliott Java at 20 and Where we are Going Daniel Bryant The Seven Deadly Sins of Microservices We are pleased to bring you the second event of the Docklands.LJC; a group within the main London Java Community that will be focusing on the developer community in and around Docklands on the 2nd Tuesday of each month. #dljcjug Steve Elliott Java at 20 and Where we are Going This talk will look back at where Java has come from over the last two decades and where it is going in the future. It will provide a high level overview of the Java release cycle, the different versions and updates and look at the future challenges and how Java will evolve going forwards, including some of the things that may be in Java 9 such as Jigsaw, the sun.* changes, the G1 garbage collector, VarHandles and future projects such as Valhalla and Panama. Daniel Bryant The Seven Deadly Sins of Microservices All is not completely rosy in microservice-land. It is often a sign of an architectural approachs maturity that in addition to the emergence of well-established principles and practices, that anti-patterns also begin to be identified and classified. In this talk we introduce seven deadly sins that if left unchecked could easily ruin your next microservices project... This talk will take a tour of some of the nastiest anti-patterns in microservices, giving you the tools to not only avoid but also slay these demons before they tie up your project in their own special brand of hell. Topics covered include: Pride - selfishly ignoring the new requirements for testing; Envy - introducing inappropriate intimacy within services by creating a shared domain model; Wrath - failing to deal with the inevitable bad things that occur within a distributed system; Sloth - composing services in a lazy fashion, which ultimately leads to the creation of a Distributed Monolith; and Lust - embracing the latest and greatest technology without evaluating the operational impact incurred by these choices. Who should attend: Anyone who is interested in Java or JVM based technologies, whether in the Docklands or further afield, is welcome to attend. Bios: Steve Elliott has been with Oracle (via the acquisition of Sun Microsystems) for over 21 years with a focus onJava and middleware technology. He has been involved with Java since before it went public in 1995 and was responsible for much of the original introduction of Java in the UK, presenting at many conferences in the UK and Europe. With extensive experience in the IT industry, including time as a developer and various technicalmanagement roles, Steve is now Java technology lead in the Oracle Cloud Platform / Fusion middleware team at Oracle UK. Daniel Bryant is a Principal Consultant for OpenCredo, a software consultancy and delivery company dedicated to helping our clients deliver better software faster. By night he is a keen programmer and active Associate member within the London Java Community (LJC), where he acts as a mentor and assists with organising meetups and hackdays. Daniel also contributes to several open source projects and is currently a committer on the LJC-lead 'Adopt OpenJDK' Betterrev project. He enjoys teaching and sharing ideas, and regularly presents at international conferences such as JavaOne, Devoxx, Geecon and FOSDEM. Please note: This event is being hosted by Alex Blewitt at Credit Suisse, One Cabot Square, E14 4QJ.https://www.google.com/maps/place/1+Cabot+Square,+Poplar,+London+E14+4QJ,+UK/@51.5057096,-0.0233693,17z/data=!3m1!4b1!4m2!3m1!1s0x487602c81de34389:0x3624c8154d1063f7?hl=en Arrive from 18:20, talks will start at 18:30. Advance registration through Meetup, with your full name, is required by August 9th. Nearest stop Canary Wharf Nearest coffee shop Caf Brera, One Canada Square, Cabot Place, if you arrive early. Continue the conversation at our Slack Group:londonjavacommunity.slack.com- Sign up here if you're not a member:https://barrycranford.typeform.com/to/IIyQxd
Think your service is fault tolerant? Well this talk is about proving it with protocol level test doubles. This talk will not be about in-process mocking, spying or stubbing. Instead, we will describe the benefits of using test doubles at the *protocol* level. When you are building a service, either monolithic or micro, you will have external dependences such as databases, message queues and/or HTTP services. The key idea is that in order to achieve fault-tolerance you must test failure scenarios across all your external dependencies and, crucially, network failures that may occur between your application and these other services. The talk will be structured as follows: - Concept and motivation: prepare to be convinced you should be testing this stuff! - Two specific examples: 1. Using Wiremock for HTTP dependencies with examples of how to test malformed responses, delays and invalid HTTP 2. Database: Stubbed Cassandra - a test double I built for Apache Cassandra to allow the simulation of faults typically only found in large multi data centre clusters. - How to simulate network faults using tools like saboteur, tc and iptables. My hope is by the end of this talk you'll want to go and build a test double for all your dependencies. I'll cover the above topics via slides and short demos. Who should attend: Any hands on technical person: developers, QAs, architects Bio: Christopher Batey (@chbatey) is a Software Engineer by trade and is currently employed by DataStax as a Technical Advocate. Chris has also worked for Sky, where he helped build their online television platform, and IBM, where he helped develop a variety of messaging products. He spends a lot of his own time contributing back to the software community and is a active member of the London Java Community, London Software Craftsmanship Community and Cassandra London. Christopher has a particular interest in building effective automated tests for every scenario, including network failures, database faults and services returning junk. For that reason he built an open source test double for Apache Cassandra: Stubbed Cassandra. He also blogs regularly at: http://christopher-batey.blogspot.co.uk/. Agenda: 18:15: Doors open 18:30: Main presentation (1 hour approx.) Please Note: Nearest tube: BarbicanNearest Coffee Shop: Sun Coffee Shop, 55-63 Goswell Road, London, EC1V 7EN for if you arrive early *Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link:https://skillsmatter.com/meetups/7252-think-your-software-is-fault-tolerant-prove-it Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/ Continue the conversation at our Slack Group:londonjavacommunity.slack.com- Sign up here if you're not a member:https://barrycranford.typeform.com/to/IIyQxd
**Please note this is an online promotion - no actual meeting will take place** 48HR RAFFLE: 3 Free Tickets to GOTO London (September 16th - 18th / London) We have been generously donated 3 free tickets for GOTOin London (16th/18th Sept)to raffle to 3 lucky LJC members. Also we have a 20% discount code for those who don't win -LJC20RAFFLE.The winners will be picked at random at the start of next week, and announced shortly afterwards. To enter simply RSVP to this event and answer the questions. Information from the organiser: Weve got 3 free tickets up for grabs for what is now an awesome 2 day event, taking place September 16th -18th. You can catch speakers such as Adrian Colyer, Rod Johnson, Dan North and Adrian Cockcroft and many more ! Many conferences have an initial keynote session for everyone followed by a wide selection of talks running at the same time. This forces you to decide what to miss, move from room to room and the individual tracks have trouble building and maintaining context. We decided to do things differently for GOTO London. At GOTO London, all talks are in the same room the first two conference days. The audience has a shared context as the curated story arc unfolds. You will not miss anything or waste time moving from room to room, and you will get to know each other and the speakers much better. The three core areas that form a story arc for the first two conference days are Agile, Lean and Rugged. In each of them, we discuss the state of the art and emerging directions that will set you up with a broad view of these key concerns for developers in 2016. The final day of the conference puts the concepts into practice with deep dives into open source tools and the latest products running alongside real user experiences. There will also be two days of workshops prior to the conference where attendees can go into depth with a specific area or technology. We expect that GOTO London attendees will have an enjoyable and memorable experience learning the concepts and tools needed to be agile, lean and rugged for 2016 and beyond. As a RAFFLE participant you can get 20% discount with the code LJC20RAFFLE'. To register and check out the programme, please visit GOTO London This prize does not include travel/accommodation costs. To enter simply RSVP to this event and answer the questions. Raffle organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/
We are pleased to bring you the third event of the Docklands.LJC; a group within the main London Java Community that focuses on the developer community in and around Docklands on the 2nd Tuesday of each month. #dljcjug. Our speaker this month is Martin Thompson. Does TCP not meet your required latency consistently? Is UDP not reliable enough? Do you need to multicast? What about flow control, congestion control, and a means to avoid head of line blocking that can be integrated with the application? Or perhaps you're just fascinated by how to design for the cutting edge of performance? Maybe you have tried higher level messaging products and found they are way too complicated because of the feature bloat driven by product marketing cycles. Aeron takes it back-to-basics with a pure focus on performance and reliability. We have built it from the ground up with mechanical sympathy in its DNA. The data structures are lock-free, wait-free, and copy-free and even persistent for our functional friends. Interaction with the media is layered so you can swap between UDP, Inifiniband, or Shared Memory as required. Aeron is open-source with implementations in Java and C++ that interoperate. There are no unnecessary features to bloat the implementation, yet the design is open so that it can be composed into higher level abstractions. This talk will focus on the design of Aeron and what we learned trying to achieve very consistent performance. We will explore the challenges of dealing with reliable message delivery over UDP and the data structures necessary to support transmission and retransmission in in a lock-free and wait-free manner. Who should attend: Anyone who is interested in Java or JVM based technologies, whether in the Docklands or further afield, is welcome to attend. Bio: Martin has over 2 decades of experience building complex and high-performance computing systems. He is most recently known for his work on Aeron and SBE. Previously at LMAX he was the co-founder and CTO when he created the Disruptor. Prior to LMAX Martin worked for Betfair, three different content companies wrestling with the world largest product catalogues, and was a lead on some of the most significant C++ and Java systems of the 1990s in the automotive and finance domains. He blogs at mechanical-sympathy.blogspot.com, and can be found giving training courses on performance and concurrency when he is not cutting code to make systems better. Please note: This event is being hosted by Alex Blewitt at Credit Suisse, One Cabot Square, E14 4QJ.https://www.google.com/maps/place/1+Cabot+Square,+Poplar,+London+E14+4QJ,+UK/@51.5057096,-0.0233693,17z/data=!3m1!4b1!4m2!3m1!1s0x487602c81de34389:0x3624c8154d1063f7?hl=en Arrive from 18:20 - talk will start at 18:30. Advance registration through Meetup, with your full name, is required by September 7th at 12:00. Nearest stop Canary Wharf Nearest coffee shop Caf Brera, One Canada Square, Cabot Place, if you arrive early. Continue the conversation at our Slack Group:londonjavacommunity.slack.com- Sign up here if you're not a member:https://barrycranford.typeform.com/to/IIyQxd Videos from past meetups can be viewed athttp://docklandsljc.uk
hackthetower.co.ukis a hack day for any and all developers to come and collaborate on projects or discover new technologies together and enhance their skills. Bring your laptop and your desire to try things out & have fun! This month the special guest is the Java Jigsaw project We are also co-hosting the Adopt Openjdk hackday & a Clojure Webapps workshop Come hack on the Java implementation that you use everyday! * Improved OpenJDK9 test coverage* OpenJDK Warnings cleanup* Small Bugs Fixes* The betterrev project If you're not familiar with the OpenJDKcodebase there will be people there to help you get started, including some from IBM who work on OpenJDK professionally. Rough Schedule You can get into the offices from around 9.45am onwards and have some breakfast and coffee, relax and take in the stunning view from the 26th & 27th floors of the Salesforce Tower (formerly known as the Heron Tower). 10.30am - Get together and discuss application ideas & things you want to try out.10.45am - Split into groups and get going1pm - Lunch time (sandwiches, fruit and drinks provided, requests taken)1.30pm onwards - Keep on hacking until you have had enough or want to go to the pub! Sign upPlease include a first and lastname when prompted to (if its not on your meetup profile) so we can register you with building security, otherwise you may have to wait in reception for a long time. Food & drink will be provided, thanks to our hosts Salesforce Sponsor message Start building & deploying your apps in the cloud with free developer environments fromdeveloper.salesforce.comandwww.heroku.com Continue the conversation at our Slack Group:londonjavacommunity.slack.com- Sign up here if you're not a member:https://barrycranford.typeform.com/to/IIyQxd
**Please note this is an online promotion - no actual meeting will take place** 48HR RAFFLE: 2 Free Tickets to MongoDB Days UK (5th Nov / London) We have been generously donated 2 free tickets for MongoDB Days UK in London (5th Nov)to raffle to 2 lucky LJC members. Also we have a 25% discount code for those who don't win -LJC. The winners will be picked at random at the end of this week, and announced shortly afterwards. To enter simply RSVP to this event and answer the questions. Information from the organiser: Whether you are new to MongoDB or an experienced user, you will learn something new at MongoDB Days. These events, held around the world, are designed to provide users with the in-depth technical education required to be successful designing and deploying apps. Youll hear how organisations are taking advantage of MongoDB for a variety of ground-breaking use cases. Youll discover how to take advantage of the latest features in version 3.0, as well as whats coming in the next release. Youll meet the engineers developing the product and have the opportunity to ask the experts best practices on developing and operating MongoDB. New to MongoDB, or need a refresher? No problem. We offer jumpstart sessions to help you get up-to-speed on key concepts. MongoDB Days provide you with the information you need to successfully build and run modern apps. Space is limited so reserve your place today - https://www.mongodb.com/events/mongodb-days-uk Didn't win the raffle? Use code LJC when registering to receive 25% off. Groups of 3+ get an additional 25% off! Register before Early Bird pricing ends (2 October) to get the best available pricing. This prize does not include travel/accommodation costs. To enter simply RSVP to this event and answer the questions. Raffle organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/
**Please note this is an online promotion - no actual meeting will take place** RAFFLE: 2 Free Tickets to JAX London (12-14 October / London) We have been generously donated 2 free tickets for JAX London in London (12-14 October)to raffle to 2 lucky LJC members. Also we have a 10% discount code for those who don't win -LJC_10. The winners will be picked at random at the start of next week, and announced shortly afterwards. To enter simply RSVP to this event and answer the questions. Information from the organiser: JAX London returns this October, bringing together the worlds leading innovators in the fields of JAVA, microservices, continuous delivery and DevOps. In the spirit of agile methodology and lean business, JAX London is the place to define the next level of efficient and super-adaptive technology for your organisation. We would like to invite you to our JAX Community Night on Tuesday, 13th October. As part of JAX London this free event will give you an idea of the main conference and the chance to meet up with devs, architects and experts from Java, JVM and development scenes. Program: 6pm Expo Reception (Networking, Food & Drinks) 7.15pm Keynote VC from the inside a techies perspective by Adrian Colyer 8.15pm Panel discussion The Business Value of Technology Click here for more details and registration for the Community Night and check out www.jaxlondon.com for more information about the conference and speakers. This prize does not include travel/accommodation costs. To enter simply RSVP to this event and answer the questions. Raffle organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/
**Please note this is an online promotion - no actual meeting will take place** 48 HR RAFFLE: 1 free ticket to London Big Data Conference (25 Nov 2015) We have been generously donated 1 free ticket for Big Data In Use Conference, London on 25th November 2015 to raffle to 1 lucky LJC member. Also we have a 20% discount code for those who don't win LJC_meetup_20. The free ticket winner will be picked at random at the start of next week, and announced shortly afterwards. To enter simply RSVP to this event and answer the questions. Information from the organiser: Big Data Week is the leading global platform of interconnected community events focusing on the social, political, technological impacts of data. We connect data professionals helping to facilitate the sharing of knowledge, new ideas about data. http://london.bigdataweek.com This prize does not include travel/accommodation costs. To enter simply RSVP to this event and answer the questions. Raffle organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/
**Please note this is an online promotion - no actual meeting will take place** 48 HR RAFFLE: 1 free ticket to Code Mesh (3-4 November 2015) We have been generously donated 1 free ticket for Code Mesh, 3-4 November 2015 to raffle to 1 lucky LJC member. Also we have a 10% discount code for those who don't win 'LJC10' which can be used in addition to the early bird offers currently available. The free ticket winner will be picked at random at the start of next week, and announced shortly afterwards. To enter simply RSVP to this event and answer the questions. Information from the organiser: Code Mesh showcases how companies of all sizes use a wide range of non-mainstream and emerging technologies and languages in fields like gaming, telecoms, finance, new media, health, etc. It also provides a place for people from various tech communities to meet, share ideas and get inspired from each other. http://www.codemesh.io/ This prize does not include travel/accommodation costs. To enter simply RSVP to this event and answer the questions. Raffle organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/
We are pleased to bring you the fourth event of the Docklands.LJC; a group within the main London Java Community that focuses on the developer community in and around Docklands on the 2nd Tuesday of each month. Our speakers this month are David Brimley and David Garry. David Brimley - Distributed Java Systems in Minutes with Hazelcast Do you want to have quick access to a Java Map that can store terabytes of data? How about if we make the Map partitioned across multiple JVM for fault tolerance and scalability? Well also make it in-memory so access is fast. In this talk well look at how you can use familiar data structures and services such as Maps, Sets, Lists, Queues and Topics in a distributed and highly scalable manner. Well be using Hazelcast, which is an open-source, Apache 2 licensed in-memory data grid. Hazelcast has a very shallow learning curve, well have a distributed system running in minutes. Youll find that the API is a piece of cake. its regular Java Collections and Concurrency API, but distributed. Now all your data is stored in memory youll also discover how to run various distributed compute operations over it, such as Query, Aggregations and Map Reduce. David Garry - Creating Java REST servers from Swagger API definitions Swaggeris a simple but powerful representation of RESTful APIs. This talk will give an introduction to API creation using theSwagger Editor. Using this API David will show how to generate a REST service in Java, usingswagger-codegento create template Java REST servers with technologies such as Jersey, JAXB and Jackson. Who should attend Anyone who is interested in Java or JVM based technologies, whether in the Docklands or further afield, is welcome to attend. Bios David Brimleyis a Senior Solutions Architect for Hazelcast, he helps companies get the best out of in memory data grids. Previously David has held senior engineering positions at firms such as Credit Suisse, HSBC, Nomura and Royal Bank of Scotland. During this time he became familiar with IMDG products such as Pivotal Gemfire and Oracle Coherence. David has been a professional coder for over 25 years and confirmed coding addict for 10 years prior to that, a journey which began on a BBC Model B computer. David Garryis co-founder and CTO at Nomos Software. He is the architect and lead developer of their RuleX code generation product, and has extensive expertise in description languages for APIs, and in code generation. Automated technical support services generated by RuleX are used by 15 banks across Europe, providing diagnostic information to help developers and IT teams connect into bank systems. Please note Your full name is required in order to attend. If your username is not your full name, please add it when registering, otherwise you will be removed from the event. Arrive from 18:20, talks will begin promptly at 18:30. Attendees arriving after 18:40 will not be admitted. Nearest coffee shop Caf Brera, One Canada Square, Cabot Place, if you arrive early. Continue the conversation at our Slack Group:londonjavacommunity.slack.com- you cansign up here if you're not a member:
hackthetower.co.ukis a hack day for any and all developers to come and collaborate on projects or discover new technologies together and enhance their skills. Bring your laptop and your desire to try things out & have fun! We are also co-hosting the Adopt Openjdk hackday & a Clojure Webapps workshop Come hack on the Java implementation that you use everyday! * Improved OpenJDK9 test coverage* OpenJDK Warnings cleanup* Small Bugs Fixes* The betterrev project If you're not familiar with the OpenJDKcodebase there will be people there to help you get started, including some from IBM who work on OpenJDK professionally. Rough Schedule You can get into the offices from around 10am onwards and have some breakfast and coffee, relax and take in the stunning view from the 26th & 27th floors of the Salesforce Tower (formerly known as the Heron Tower). 10.30am - Get together and discuss application ideas & things you want to try out.10.45am - Split into groups and get going1pm - Lunch time (sandwiches, fruit and drinks provided, requests taken)1.30pm onwards - Keep on hacking until you have had enough or want to go to the pub! Sign upPlease include a first and lastname when prompted to (if its not on your meetup profile) so we can register you with building security, otherwise you may have to wait in reception for a long time. Food & drink will be provided, thanks to our hosts Salesforce Sponsor message Start building & deploying your apps in the cloud with free developer environments fromdeveloper.salesforce.comandwww.heroku.com Continue the conversation at our Slack Group:londonjavacommunity.slack.com- Sign up here if you're not a member:https://barrycranford.typeform.com/to/IIyQxd
WireMock is an HTTP mocking tool. During four years of using and maintaining it and though discussions with other users I've discovered a number of practices for getting the most out of it, in addition to a few anti-patterns. In this talk you'll learn techniques for building maintainable, readable, fast test suites utilising service mocks that cover a broad range of problem types. You'll also learn how to avoid common pitfalls that can turn your test suite into a maintenance nightmare. Topics covered will include: Scalable management of test data Making tests readable Making tests fast and supporting concurrency Using generative techniques Fault injection Building hermetic services Test your CDN Ill live code a concrete use case for WireMock - deploying it to a PAAS (Heroku) in order to write some integration tests proving the properties of a CDN (Fastly) in the wild. Who should attend: Developers, SETs and testers who automate who'd like to increase the effectiveness of their tests while avoiding common pitfalls. Proficiency in Java and JUnit, and a working knowledge of HTTP will be needed to get the most out of this talk. About Tom Akehurst: I'm a JVM developer/DevOpper of over 10 years and currently a consultant with Energized Work. I spend far too much time tinkering with tests and created WireMock and Saboteur (a fault injection tool). Bios: About Tom Akehurst: I'm a JVM developer/DevOpper of over 10 years and currently a consultant with Energized Work. I spend far too much time tinkering with tests and created WireMock and Saboteur (a fault injection tool). About Rob Elliot: Im a web developer, primarily server side and JVM focussed, with 15 years experience and with a strong bias to XP & TDD techniques. Currently a consultant with Energized Work. Agenda: 18:15: Doors open 18:30: Main presentation (1 hour approx.) *Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: https://skillsmatter.com/meetups/7392-mock-services-not-objects Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/ Continue the conversation at our Slack Group:londonjavacommunity.slack.com- Sign up here if you're not a member:https://barrycranford.typeform.com/to/IIyQxd
**Please note this is an online promotion - no actual meeting will take place** 48 HR RAFFLE: 10 free passes to Java2Days, Sofia, Bulgaria (2-4 November 2015) We have been generously donated 10 free passes for the Java2Days conference to raffle to 10 lucky LJC members. The pass winners will be picked at random at the start of next week, and announced shortly afterwards. To enter simply RSVP to this event and answer the questions. Information from the organiser: The 7th edition of Java2Days and co-events Cloud2Days and Mobile2Days the largest forum for software development technologies in Eastern Europe that will be held on 02 04 November 2015 in Sofia, Bulgaria. The event is focused to highlight todays cutting edge technologies and trends in the main areas: - Java incl. SE & EE - Relational Databases, NoSQL - Mobile, iOS, Android, Windows Phones - HTML, Java Script, CSS - Go, Node.js, Ruby - DevOps, Cloud - Security - QA Tools, Techniques, Process - Process/ Concepts/ Ideas The pass covers access to Java2Days, Mobile2Days, Cloud2Days Tech tracks; access to Demo & Relax zone; coffee breaks; Q&A sessions. This prize does not include travel/accommodation costs. The event website is at http://2015.java2days.com To enter simply RSVP to this event and answer the questions. Raffle organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/
Today, there are thought to be over 150 commercial and open source NoSQL database products. Often, these products are divided into four broad categories: key-value stores, column stores, document stores and graph stores. Increasingly, some products are combining several of these categories together into what are called multi-model database systems. Whilst the market for NoSQL database systems today is still very small and thought to be around 2% of the SQL market, the technology has attracted interest from organizations looking to solve new business problems. However, since it is still an emerging technology, careful consideration is required in finding the relevant developer skills and choosing the right product. This presentation will discuss these issues in greater detail. In particular, it will focus on some of the leading NoSQL database products and discuss their architectures and suitability for different problems. Originally presented at an LJC meetup in May 2013, this presentation will update LJC members on the latest developments in market analysis, job trends, performance benchmarks, security, and more. Bio: Akmal B. Chaudhri is an Independent Consultant, specializing in Big Data, NoSQL and NewSQL database technologies. He has previously held roles as a developer, consultant, product strategist and technical trainer with several Blue-Chip companies and Big Data startups. He has regularly presented at many international conferences and served on the program committees for a number of major conferences and workshops. He has published and presented on emerging technologies and edited or co-edited 10 books. He is now learning about Apache Spark and also how to become a Data Scientist. He holds a BSc (1st Class Hons.) in Computing and Information Systems, MSc in Business Systems Analysis and Design and a PhD in Computer Science. He is a Member of the British Computer Society (MBCS) and a Chartered IT Professional (CITP). Agenda: 18:15: Doors open 18:30: Main presentation (90 mins approx. with Q&A) Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/ Continue the conversation at our Slack Group:londonjavacommunity.slack.com- Sign up here if you're not a member:https://barrycranford.typeform.com/to/IIyQxd
Everyone is talking about microservices these days! So the questions are: should you also jump on that bandwagon? And why are your somewhat older colleagues (yep, those that still remember the EJB 2 revolution) not that enthusiastic? To help you make the right decisions, this talk will first focus on explaining complexity - the problem microservices claim to solve. It then will concentrate on modular architecture and how it compares to what most people understand by microservices! Live demo will present multiple ways to modularize exiting JEE application going from "monolithic" Glassfish EJB/JSF style app through SpringBoot and OSGi to reach a distributed system with a portal as front-end Bio: Milen Dyankov is senior consultant at Liferay - the most popular Open Source portal platform. Before joining Liferay in 2012 he spent over 10 years designing and developing Java EE solutions for companies in finance and telecommunications industry. Apart from java portals he often speaks at conferences around Europe about modular and distributed systems, OSGI, performance tuning, web applications for mobile devices and many more! Agenda: 18:15: Doors open 18:30: Main presentation (1 hour approx.) Please note: The nearest Underground stations are Moorgate and Liverpool Street stations. If you arrive early, there is coffee and tea available from the bar at CodeNode. *Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link:https://skillsmatter.com/meetups/7414-london-java-community Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/ Continue the conversation at our Slack Group:londonjavacommunity.slack.com- Sign up here if you're not a member:https://barrycranford.typeform.com/to/IIyQxd
We are pleased to bring you the fifth event of the Docklands.LJC; a group within the main London Java Community that focuses on the developer community in and around Docklands on the 2nd Tuesday of each month. Our speakers this month are Chris Newland and John Oliver. Please note the location for this event as it is in a different location from the previous one. As the spaces are limited places will be preferentially allocated to those who have attended previously and first-timers. Chris Newland - Understanding HotSpot JVM Performance with JITWatch Java and other languages compile to bytecode which executes on the HotSpot Java Virtual Machine (JVM). Learn how the JVM monitors your program at runtime to make dynamic optimisation decisions. This talk will introduce the performance-boosting techniques used by the JVM's Just-In-Time (JIT) compilers such as method inlining, intrinsics, escape analysis, and branch prediction. We will learn how to instruct the JVM to output its optimisation decisions and introduce the JITWatch tool which can help you understand whether the JVM is able to get the best performance from your code. John Oliver - Examining Low Pause Garbage Collection in Java Low pause garbage collection is all the rage these days, G1 soon tobecome the default collector and Shenandoah has been accepted forinclusion in Java 9. Almost all of us care about controlling JVM pausesto some degree, but how do you do that? Which collector should youchoose? What is happening in the future? This talk takes a look at both G1 and Shenandoah. G1 has now stabilisedand may well be your best option for low pause collection right now.Shenandoah is an exciting prospect that is aiming to support 100GB heapswith pauses of less than 10ms. We will examine how they work, practicalexperience of their limitations, tuning advice and their performance. Wewill also look at recent and future changes to garbage collection. Who should attend Anyone who is interested in Java or JVM based technologies, whether in the Docklands or further afield, is welcome to attend. Bios Chris Newland has more than 10 years experience in building trading platforms and market data systems in Java. He is interested in JVM performance and is the author of the open-source JITWatch tool which he has presented at JavaOne and has written about in Java Magazine. John Oliver has performed research and development in many languages for 15years, on various platforms from micro controllers, robots, simulations,desktop applications and web services. He has previously worked onstatic analysis tools for bug detection. He currently works at jClaritydeveloping performance monitoring tools for the JVM, applying machinelearning techniques to solve the problem of detecting and diagnosingperformance problems. A number of the tools developed are specificallytargeted at monitoring the performance of garbage collection within theJVM. Please note Your full name is required in order to attend. If your username is not your full name, please add it when registering, otherwise you will be removed from the event. Arrive from 18:20, talks will begin promptly at 18:30. Attendees arriving after 18:40 will not be admitted. Nearest coffee shop Caf Brera, One Canada Square, Cabot Place, if you arrive early. Continue the conversation at our Slack Group:londonjavacommunity.slack.com- you cansign up here if you're not a member:
This talk tells the story of Java for embedded applications. Java originated from the desire for portable application code to run across a panoply of available processor families. That desire remains hot today, especially with the explosion of low cost, fully capable processors and cut down OS distributions. We will walk through the realities of doing embedded Java development, expose the breadth of choices to make in boards and setups, and show the ways that modern Java Standard Edition is leveraged to the hilt. Also important to discuss is the trajectory on which Java 9 will rocket, so we look into the implications of Project Jigsaw on the embedded application development approach. Bio: Matt Schuetze is the Director of Product Management for Azul Systems. He runs requirements management on the Zing and Zulu product families, guiding feature composition and new product delivery for both those JVM products. He is excited to help usher in the budding Zulu Embedded product offering from Azul, covering aspects of both industrial and consumer IoT. Matt is also the Azul alternate on the Executive Committee of the Java Community Process, helps run the Detroit Java User Group, and speaks at JUGs and industry trade shows regularly. Agenda: 18:15: Doors open 18:30: Main presentation (60 mins approx. with Q&A) Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/ Continue the conversation at our Slack Group:londonjavacommunity.slack.com- Sign up here if you're not a member:https://barrycranford.typeform.com/to/IIyQxd
hackthetower.co.ukis a hack day for any and all developers to come and collaborate on projects or discover new technologies together and enhance their skills. Bring your laptop and your desire to try things out & have fun! We are also co-hosting the Adopt Openjdk hackday & a ClojureScript workshop. Come hack on the Java implementation that you use everyday! * Improved OpenJDK9 test coverage* OpenJDK Warnings cleanup* Small Bugs Fixes* The betterrev project If you're not familiar with the OpenJDKcodebase there will be people there to help you get started, including some from IBM who work on OpenJDK professionally. Rough Schedule You can get into the offices from around 10am onwards and have some breakfast and coffee, relax and take in the stunning view from the 26th & 27th floors of the Salesforce Tower (formerly known as the Heron Tower). 10.30am - Get together and discuss application ideas & things you want to try out.10.45am - Split into groups and get going1pm - Lunch time (sandwiches, fruit and drinks provided, requests taken)1.30pm onwards - Keep on hacking until you have had enough or want to go to the pub! Sign upPlease include a first and lastname when prompted to (if its not on your meetup profile) so we can register you with building security, otherwise you may have to wait in reception for a long time. Food & drink will be provided, thanks to our hosts Salesforce Sponsor message Start building & deploying your apps in the cloud with free developer environments fromdeveloper.salesforce.comandwww.heroku.com Continue the conversation at our Slack Group:londonjavacommunity.slack.com- Sign up here if you're not a member:https://barrycranford.typeform.com/to/IIyQxd
**Please note this is an online promotion - no actual meeting will take place** 48HR RAFFLE: 1 ticket for ContainerSched conference at Skills Matter, London (19-20th November) Please join us at the inaugural ContainerSched conference! So you've adopted Containers as part of your strategy but now you need to know how to address the real life challenges. You've also considered scheduler and orchestration technology like Mesos, Kubernetes or HashiCorp Nomad, but you aren't sure of their respective strengths and weakness. To help the tech community discuss these challenges Skills Matter, with help from OpenCredo, have organised ContainerSched conference for you. Follow the link for more details and the sign-in page: https://skillsmatter.com/conferences/7208-containersched-2015 The event will focus on the current interest around both containers and schedulers, and aims to explore the core technologies and associated areas of interest such as networking, storage and security. We'll focus on topics relating to containerisation, scheduling, networking, storage and security in 2-days packed with talks and discussions featuring some of the world's top experts, held on November 19-20th in London. For those not fortunate enough to win we have also secured a generous discount on tickets for LJC members, with 50% off the full price of a ticket for LJC members with the code KUBERNETES-50. ***To enter the raffle for the free ticket simply RSVP to this offer and answer the questions*** About the organisers: Skills Matter was founded in 2003, when we made it our mission to help drive innovation in technology by bringing software engineers together to discover emerging technologies, learn and share new skills and evolve practices and ideas. With an unwavering can-do attitude and inherent belief in the brain-power and creativity of our community, Skills Matter has grown from humble origins to 60,000 members strong in just over a decade. This prize does not include travel/accommodation costs. Raffle organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/
Ratpack is a web application toolkit for Java and Groovy. It supports a fully asynchronous programming model and native optimisations for high performance and efficiency, in addition to modern tooling and test support. But while it's capable of impressive results in the right context, its promises-based API can present a steep learning curve. In this talk you'll gain an understanding of Ratpack's key elements, strengths and use cases. I'll also talk about my team's experiences building a Ratpack application for a client and ultimately putting it into production. Topics covered will include: The Handler abstraction and Groovy DSL Application composition and dependency injection Ratpack's async execution model and programming abstractions Using Ratpack with RxJava Testing Running Ratpack on Heroku Who should attend: Developers and technical architects who'd like to know what Ratpack is all about or are considering adopting it. This talk will be most suited to folks with at least a few years' of JVM programming under their belt plus some experience of functional programming. Bio: Tom Akehurst: I'm a JVM developer/DevOpper of over 10 years and currently a consultant with Energized Work. I spend far too much time tinkering with tests and created WireMock and Saboteur (a fault injection tool).Agenda: 18:15: Doors open 18:30: Main presentation (1 hour approx.) *Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: https://skillsmatter.com/meetups/7391-ratpack-for-real Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/ Continue the conversation at our Slack Group:londonjavacommunity.slack.com- Sign up here if you're not a member:https://barrycranford.typeform.com/to/IIyQxd
London Java Community Open Conference ***** NOTE ***** To attend you MUST CLICK HERE AND BUY YOUR TICKET ON THE LJC OPEN CONFERENCE 2015 WEBSITE ***** NOTE ***** RSVPS are switch off for this Meetup as we are running the event through THE LJC OPEN CONFERENCE 2015 WEBSITE Details of the Conference sessions proposed are being placed on the LJC Open Conference website Directions to venue(Google Map) The entrance to the IBM offices is on Upper Ground (Google Street View) opposite the junction of Cornwall street. You will see a driveway going up to the first floor of the building, walk up the footpath on this driveway to arrive at the entrance to the IBM building. Rough Schedule overview: 0830 Sign-in hands over to security (will be very slow)0930 Brief introduction, discussing how day will work and organising the board1000 Conference Keynote1040 Conference1240 Lunch1340 Ignite and Lightning talks1420 Conference1730 Conference wrap up+ Social event TBC Conference overview LJC Conference #7 is a one day event where you can attend a wide range of talks, workshops and practical sessions, drawn from the experiences of those in industry. Its a great opportunity to learn withup to 30 sessionsduring the day, including a keynote, lightning talks, open source project overviews, a Java 9 track, discussion groups and a whole lot more. What people said about our previous conferences (see photos): "Fantastic day, learned a great deal and made some valuable connections with people in the industry, more of these please""Amazing forum. Met some of the best minds in the field. Inspired me to learn more and work harder.. ""Brilliant time! Learnt a lot and met a lot of great people. Look forward to the next one :-)""An excellent opportunity to learn more about things I should know about but didn't" Those who want to can get more involved and are encouraged to share their ideas and experiences. You can also come up with ideas and sessions on the morning of the conference (as with an unconference)!! We encourage you to talk about a wide range of topics, not just specifics of the Java language, Spring, Hibernate, Open Source, OSGi, etc, but also about tools and practices - eg. software craftsmanship, BDD, TDD, Kanban, Agile and other practices that enhance our world. Due to the diversity of the Java ecosystem in terms of languages, we have many people from the Groovy, Scala and Clojure user groups will be sharing their experiences. The open conference has a minimal payment to cover costs of food. No payment is made to speakers or organisers from this entry fee. If you are unable to pay via Eventbrite, please contact theorganiser directlyand we will try to seek alternative solution. Finally thanks to IBM who are sponsoring the LJC this year for providing their facilities for the conference. IBM are inviting all members of the LJC to take up a free trial of Bluemix using the following URL: bit.ly/BluemixforLJC Please do take a look.
**Please note this is an online promotion - no actual meeting will take place** 48HR RAFFLE: 2 ticket, ThingMonk conference, Dalston, London (Dec 3 - 4 2015) ThingMonk is another unique conference from the team that brought you Monki Gras and Monktoberfest. Now in its third year, ThingMonk is the conference that Londons IoT developers and designers attend. The event bridges Web Startup Internet of Things communities with their peers in the Industrial Internet/Machine to Machine to Machine space. We bring elite developers and practitioners together, fostering cross-sector collaboration. 2015 has been the year in which the Internet of Things has moved front and center for business, the opportunities for innovation are endless and ThingMonk is at the very forefront of this movement. This years themes include: Data, Analytics and Visualisation: how do we use, present and aggregate IoT data at scale Time Series and IoT Design and IoT: designing for users, their context and scale, a product management revolution Industrial IoT/Industry 4.0 how manufacturing is being reconfigured as software Full stack IoT: how connected devices, platforms, services and data come together IoT Programming Models ThingMonk celebrates both hacker culture and industrial design, web and mobile. Well look at the boring side of logistics, the kind that pays the bills and puts food on the table. From agile to big data to machine to machine comms, continuous deployment to Big Data, developers are currently building the future weve dubbed the Internet of Things. The alpha geeks are already making the future. ThingMonk 2015 will be a signature event, and experience to remember. For those not fortunate enough to win: There is still an excellent deal! We have also secured a generous discount on tickets for LJC members, with 30% off the full price of a ticket for LJC members with the code LJC30 ***To enter the raffle for the free ticket simply RSVP to this offer and answer the questions*** About the organisers: RedMonk helps people understand software developers and why they make the choices they do. We call developers the New Kingmakers. We learn from devs rather than spending our time with CIOs, purchasing and legal people. And we put on really good events. This prize does not include travel/accommodation costs. Raffle organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/
It can be dispiriting to find that a well-designed system that has been carefully implemented runs into problems as soon as it hits production, but such things do happen. This session explores why this happens and discusses why good software development practice is important but ultimately isn't sufficient to create a reliable and effective enterprise system. We'll discuss what being "production ready" really means in order to allow us to understand the principles, patterns and practices that we need to be aware of and apply in order to get our systems into production safely and keep them there. Who should attend: This talk is for any developer productionising their applications. Bio: Eoin Woods is CTO at Endava, the European IT services company, an author, a conference speaker and an active member of the London software engineering community. His main technical interests are software architecture, distributed systems and computer security.Agenda: 18:15: Doors open 18:30: Main presentation (1 hour approx.) *Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link:https://skillsmatter.com/meetups/7502-london-java-community Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/ Continue the conversation at our Slack Group:londonjavacommunity.slack.com- Sign up here if you're not a member:https://barrycranford.typeform.com/to/IIyQxd
We are pleased to bring you the sixth and last event of 2015 of the Docklands.LJC; a group within the main London Java Community that focuses on the developer community in and around Docklands on the 2nd Tuesday of each month. Our speaker this month is Steve Elliott; we are also collecting for Crisis at Christmas for this Christmas-themed event. Please note the location for this event as it is in a different location from the previous one. Steve Elliott - The Ghosts of Java Past, Present and Yet to Come The world was a very different place 20 years ago when Java first appeared.That environment shaped many aspects of Java (JVM, networking, security, types, concurrency etc) and despite a lot of evolution since there are still areas of Java that reflect those beginnings. This session will cover the evolution of how Java came to be what it is today including some lesser know history.We will also look at the current roadmap of Java going forwards. Alex Blewitt - Docklands.LJC Christmas Quiz Christmas is coming, and to celebrate six months of Docklands.LJC meetups, we will be having a post-talk Christmas Quiz. How much Java do you remember? Can you name the previous talks? What, in a nutshell, is private protected access? At the very least it will be a fun way to round out the year, and afterwards drinks may be involved. Crisis at Christmas Crisis at Christmas is a charity that provides homeless Londoners with a Christmas - not only a roof over their heads and hot meals, but also essential services (such as doctors and dentists) that homeless people often have no means of accessing. The LJC has been involved with Crisis for many years, and members work as IT and computing support volunteers, as well as in the general body of volunteers at the centres. This year, Docklands.LJC is holding a special Christmas event to raise money for Crisis. If you can afford to make a donation, please do. The money raised will all be used by Crisis to directly help people who need it, especially at this time of year. Some of London's homeless people are among the UK's most vulnerable, and Christmas can be a very isolating and lonely time for them. You can donate here: https://community.crisis.org.uk/reserve-a-place-general-donate (or on the night). More information about Crisis at Christmas can be found at the Aimar Foundation. Who should attend Anyone who is interested in Java or JVM based technologies, whether in the Docklands or further afield, is welcome to attend. Bios Steve Elliott has been with Oracle (via the acquisition of Sun Microsystems) for 22 years with a focus on Java and middleware technology.He has been involved with Java since before it went public in 1995 and was responsible for much of the original introduction of Java in the UK, presenting at many conferences in the UK and Europe. With extensive experience in the IT industry, including time as a developer and various technical management roles, Steve is now Java technology lead in the Oracle Cloud Platform team at Oracle UK. Please note Your full name is required in order to attend. If your username is not your full name, please add it when registering, otherwise you will be removed from the event. Arrive from 18:20, talks will begin promptly at 18:30. Attendees arriving after 18:40 will not be admitted. Nearest coffee shop Caf Brera, One Canada Square, Cabot Place, if you arrive early. Continue the conversation at our Slack Group:londonjavacommunity.slack.com- you cansign up here if you're not a member:
How do we ensure something is true of our systems under all circumstances? I will discuss how we approached a number of real-world issues we faced at LMAX Exchange, where writing tests based on specific examples wasn't reliably covering all the cases we needed. This talk will demonstrate various ways to verify that a system follows given principles, regardless of input or context, and when it's appropriate to apply each approach. It will show how following that goal also makes a developer's life easier by offloading the cognitive load of those principles from the individual to the system; how converting your accumulated expertise into tests can reduce your bus factor; how you can capture knowledge about changing a system such that it only manifests when someone else tries to change the system. Anyone who is interested in broadening their approach to testing and automation. Bio: Tom Johnson is a Software Developer at LMAX Exchange, and is particularly interested in testing and language design. Agenda: 18:15: Doors open 18:30: Main presentation (45 mins, plus questions) Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/ Continue the conversation at our Slack Group:londonjavacommunity.slack.com- Sign up here if you're not a member:https://barrycranford.typeform.com/to/IIyQxd
**Please note this is an online promotion - no actual meeting will take place** 48HR RAFFLE: 1 ticket to Monki Gras Conference - Homebrew: Turning Side Projects into Communities, Products and Companies - 28/29 January 2016 Monki Gras is another unique conference from the team that brought you ThingMonk and Monktoberfest. The theme this time is Theme this year is Homebrew: Turning Side Projects into Communities, Products and Companies. Weve spent a fair bit of time exploring the parallels between the microbrewery revolution and whats happening with software and startups and just as with software, some of the best breweries on the planet right now began as side projects. There are technical talks including Christopher Seiwald, the founder and CEO of Perforce and talks from a variety of brewers and cider makers, including The Kernel Brewery, Colbys Brewery and Colemans Cider, and of course samples their wares! More details are on http://monkigras.com For those not fortunate enough to win: There is still an excellent deal! We have also secured a generous discount on tickets for LJC members, with 15% off the full price of a ticket for LJC members with the code LJC. ***To enter the raffle for the free ticket simply RSVP to this offer and answer the questions*** About the organisers: RedMonk helps people understand software developers and why they make the choices they do. We call developers the New Kingmakers. We learn from devs rather than spending our time with CIOs, purchasing and legal people. And we put on really good events. This prize does not include travel/accommodation costs. Raffle organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/
We are pleased to bring you the seventh event of the Docklands.LJC; a group within the main London Java Community that focuses on the developer community in and around Docklands on the 2nd Tuesday of each month. Our speakers this month are Alex Blewitt and Simon Ritter. Please note the location for this event as it is in a different location from the previous one. As the spaces are limited places will be preferentially allocated to those who have attended previously and first-timers; those with a low attendance record may be removed. Alex Blewitt - Modular Java applications with OSGi OSGi has been part of the Java landscape since JSR 8 was proposed in 1999 and is an invisible component of many application servers and tools. As well as providing a modular partitioning of Java applications, the dynamism allows (micro)services to come and go and be dynamically wired up. This talk will introduce the problems associated with modularity in general, and the choices that OSGi made in bringing modularisation to the Java runtime. We'll also look ahead and ask how OSGi and Jigsaw will evolve in the future. Simon Ritter -Project Jigsaw in JDK 9: Modularity Comes To Java Project Jigsaw will bring modularity to the Java platform; something that will enable better security, performance and flexibility for deployment of applications. This talk will look at the fundamentals of how modularity in Java will work. Developers will need to understand that these changes go significantly further than just separating the standard class libraries into a number of discrete units. This talk will explain the impact project Jigsaw will have on developers in terms of building their applications, as well as helping them to understand how things like encapsulation will change in JDK 9. Who should attend Anyone who is interested in Java or JVM based technologies, whether in the Docklands or further afield, is welcome to attend. Bios Dr Alex Blewitt has been working with Java since its initial release in 1995 and been involved in the Eclipse and OSGi communities for over a decade. He is a senior technical architect at Credit Suisse (whom he represents on the JCP committee), writes for InfoQ and has published several books on Eclipse and other technologies. He currently lives in Milton Keynes, and when the weather is nice, has been known to go flying from the local Cranfield airport. Alex blogs at alblue.bandlem.comand is on Twitter @alblue. Simon Ritter is the Deputy CTO of Azul Systems. Simon has been in the ITbusiness since 1984 and holds a Bachelor of Science degree in Physics fromBrunel University in the U.K. Originally working in the area of UNIX development for AT&T UNIX System Labsand then Novell, Simon moved to Sun in 1996. At this time, he started working with Java technology and has spent time working both in Java development and consultancy. Having moved to Oracle as part of the Sun acquisition he focusedon developer outreach for the core Java platform, Java for client applications and embedded Java. Now at Azul he continues to help people understand Java as well as Azul's JVM technologies and products. Follow him on Twitter, @speakjava. Please note Your full name is required in order to attend. If your username is not your full name, please add it when registering, otherwise you will be removed from the event. Arrive from 18:20, talks will begin promptly at 18:30. Attendees arriving after 18:40 will not be admitted. Nearest coffee shop Caf Brera, One Canada Square, Cabot Place, if you arrive early. Continue the conversation at our Slack Group:londonjavacommunity.slack.com- you cansign up here if you're not a member:
hackthetower.co.ukis a hack day for any and all developers to come and collaborate on projects or discover new technologies together and enhance their skills. Bring your laptop and your desire to try things out & have fun! We are also co-hosting the Adopt Openjdk hackday & a workshop on ClojureScript for beginners. Come hack on the Java implementation that you use everyday! * Improved OpenJDK9 test coverage* OpenJDK Warnings cleanup* Small Bugs Fixes* The betterrev project If you're not familiar with the OpenJDKcodebase there will be people there to help you get started, including some from IBM who work on OpenJDK professionally. Rough Schedule You can get into the offices from around 10am onwards and have some breakfast and coffee, relax and take in the stunning view from the 26th & 27th floors of the Salesforce Tower (formerly known as the Heron Tower). 10.30am - Get together and discuss application ideas & things you want to try out.10.45am - Split into groups and get going1pm - Lunch time (sandwiches, fruit and drinks provided, requests taken)1.30pm onwards - Keep on hacking until you have had enough or want to go to the pub! Sign upPlease include a first and lastname when prompted to (if its not on your meetup profile) so we can register you with building security, otherwise you may have to wait in reception for a long time. Food & drink will be provided, thanks to our hosts Salesforce Sponsor message Start building & deploying your apps in the cloud with free developer environments fromdeveloper.salesforce.comandwww.heroku.com Continue the conversation at our Slack Group:londonjavacommunity.slack.com- Sign up here if you're not a member:https://barrycranford.typeform.com/to/IIyQxd
Security is now important to all of us, not just people who work at Facebook. Most developers think about security in terms of security technologies that they want to apply to their systems, and then ask how secure the system is. From a secure systems perspective, this is the wrong way around. To build a secure system, you need to start from the things that need to be protected and the threats to those resources. In this session, Eoin will dive into the fundamentals of system security to introduce the topics we need to understand in order to decide how to secure our systems. Bio: Eoin Woods is CTO at Endava, the European IT services company, an author, a conference speaker and an active member of the London software engineering community. His main technical interests are software architecture, distributed systems and computer security.Agenda: 18:15: Doors open 18:30: Main presentation (1 hour approx.) *Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link:https://skillsmatter.com/meetups/7579-london-java-community-meetup Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/ Continue the conversation at our Slack Group:londonjavacommunity.slack.com- Sign up here if you're not a member:https://barrycranford.typeform.com/to/IIyQxd
PLEASE NOTE THIS IS A JBUG EVENT NOT AN LJC EVENT. WE ARE USING THE LJC TO GENERATE PUBLICITY OF THE EVENT. TO GUARANTEE A PLACE YOU MUST REGISTER YOUR DETAILS HERE:https://skillsmatter.com/meetups/7582-infinispan-8-tour JBUG EVENT: 'Infinispan 8 Tour' with Gustavo Fernandes PRESENTATION Infinispan 8 is the first version based on Java 8, and it brings many major features that take full advantage of the novelties introduced by the language, such as Lambdas, Streams and Completable Futures. It also introduces a brand new administration console, along with many query advanced capabilities and integration with the latest data processing tools. This talk will showcase Infinispan 8 exciting new features with code samples and demos. SPEAKER Gustavo Fernandesjoined Red Hat as a member of the Infinispan team in 2014 after having worked for a long time as a consultant in middleware projects across Europe and South America. Among his interests are Scala, Big Data and Search. He can be reached at gustavo at redhat.com, either in English, Portuguese or Italian. AGENDA 18:15 - 18:30 - Welcome, Refreshments and Networking18:30 - 20:00 -Infinispan 8 Tour+ Q&Aby Gustavo Fernandes20:00 - 21:30 - Networking,Beer & Pizza (sponsored by C2B2) Please note that to secure your place you have to register at:https://skillsmatter.com/meetups/7582-infinispan-8-tour For more information see here: http://www.meetup.com/JBoss-User-Group/events/227434411/
We are pleased to bring you the eighth event of the Docklands.LJC; a group within the main London Java Community that focuses on the developer community in and around Docklands on the 2nd Tuesday of each month. Our speakers this month are Akmal Chaudhri and Christos Erotocritou. Please note the location for this event as it is in a different location from the previous one. As the spaces are limited places will be preferentially allocated to those who have attended previously and first-timers; those with a low attendance record may be removed. Akmal Chaudhri -Selecting a NoSQL database from a menu of over 200 products Today, there are thought to be over 200 commercial and open source NoSQL database products. Often, these products are divided into four broad categories: key-value stores, column stores, document stores and graph stores. Increasingly, some products are combining several of these categories together into what are called multi-model database systems. Whilst the market for NoSQL database systems today is still very small and thought to be around 2% of the SQL market, the technology has attracted interest from organizations looking to solve new business problems. However, since it is still an emerging technology, careful consideration is required in finding the relevant developer skills and choosing the right product. This presentation will discuss these issues in greater detail. In particular, it will focus on some of the leading NoSQL database products and discuss their architectures and suitability for different problems. Java code examples will be used to demonstrate Create, Read, Update and Delete (CRUD) operations for several leading NoSQL database products. Christos Erotocritou-Introducing Apache Ignite Apache Ignite is a high-performance, integrated and distributed in-memory platform for computing and transacting on large-scale data sets in real-time, orders of magnitude faster than possible with traditional disk-based or flash technologies. During this session youll learn about the Apache Ignite project and how it is used to solve some of the most demanding scalability and performance challenges. We will cover a few typical use cases and work through some examples. Who should attend Anyone who is interested in Java or JVM based technologies, whether in the Docklands or further afield, is welcome to attend. Bios Akmal Chaudhri is an Independent Consultant, specializing in Big Data, NoSQL and NewSQL database technologies. He has previously held roles as a developer, consultant, product strategist and technical trainer with several Blue-Chip companies and Big Data startups. He has regularly presented at many international conferences and served on the program committees for a number of major conferences and workshops. He has published and presented on emerging technologies and edited or co-edited 10 books. He is now learning about Apache Spark and also how to become a Data Scientist. He holds a BSc (1st Class Hons.) in Computing and Information Systems, MSc in Business Systems Analysis and Design and a PhD in Computer Science. He is a Member of the British Computer Society (MBCS) and a Chartered IT Professional (CITP). Christos Erotocritou comes from a software engineering background, currently working as solutions architect with a passion and dedication for solving complex problems and finding new ways to use technology. He has worked for a number of software companies specialising in high-performance in-memory computing and have hands-on experience with a broad spectrum of technologies. His key areas of expertise include In-memory computing, data grids, distributed systems, NoSQL, cloud applications & orchestration, service automation, DevOps, IoT, Middleware, Highly-Scalable Systems, Continuous Integration, Ultra-Low-latency Systems, Raspberry Pi, Arduino. Please note Your full name is required in order to attend. If your username is not your full name, please add it when registering, otherwise you will be removed from the event. Arrive from 18:20, talks will begin promptly at 18:30. Attendees arriving after 18:40 will not be admitted. Nearest coffee shop Caf Brera, One Canada Square, Cabot Place, if you arrive early. Continue the conversation at our Slack Group:londonjavacommunity.slack.com- you cansign up here if you're not a member:
**Please note this is an online promotion - no actual meeting will take place** On 25 February 2016, Voxxed Days Bristol 2016 brings you the latest & future topics in Java and cloud development. 1 day 21 sessions 3 tracks Leading international and local developer experts will deliver the best content to keep you at the top of your game. Hosted in Bristol's iconic Watershed Digital Media Centre, this will be a day to remember. https://voxxeddays.com/bristol16/ To win one of 5 complimentary tickets (worth 180 inc VAT each) email <voxxedbristol-competition@hbb.org.uk> with the Subject Line: "London", and your name & company in the body. Make sure you enter by 19 February. We'll draw 5 names out of the hat and contact you directly by email. If you're unsuccessful in the raffle, thanks to our generous sponsors, we're able to offer a 20% discount to the London Java Community members, just use the code "LONDONJUG" when booking to claim your discount. https://goo.gl/HvCbYi The organisers look forward to welcoming you to Bristol in February. About the organiser: This independent Voxxed Days event is operated under license from VOXXED limited. It is operated and organised by HBB Conferencing Ltd. HBB Conferencing Ltd is a wholly owned subsidiary of High Tech Bristol and Bath CIC, a non-profit membership organisation supporting the tech cluster in the West of England. We host an industry-led Cloud SIG who have championed Voxxed Days coming to Bristol in 2016. Voxxed Days Bristol 2016 is our opportunity to showcase the best of Bristol's Java and cloud software engineering to the world, and to bring some of the rest of the world to Bristol. All our sponsors have substantial engineering presence in Bristol and around half the speakers are from the city region. This prize does not include travel/accommodation costs. Raffle organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/
hackthetower.co.ukis a hack day for any and all developers to come and collaborate on projects or discover new technologies together and enhance their skills. Bring your laptop and your desire to try things out & have fun! We are also co-hosting the Adopt Openjdk hackday & a Functional Programming with Clojure workshop for beginners Come hack on the Java implementation that you use everyday! * Improved OpenJDK9 test coverage* OpenJDK Warnings cleanup* Small Bugs Fixes* The betterrev project If you're not familiar with the OpenJDKcodebase there will be people there to help you get started, including some from IBM who work on OpenJDK professionally. Rough Schedule You can get into the offices from 10am onwards and have some breakfast and coffee, relax and take in the stunning view from the 26th, 27th, 28th or 29th floors of the Salesforce Tower (formerly known as the Heron Tower). 10.30am - Get together and discuss application ideas & things you want to try out.10.45am - Split into groups and get going1pm - Lunch time (sandwiches, fruit and drinks provided, requests taken)1.30pm onwards - Keep on hacking until you have had enough or want to go to the pub! Sign upPlease include a first and lastname when prompted to (if its not on your meetup profile) so we can register you with building security, otherwise you may have to wait in reception for a long time. Food & drink will be provided, thanks to our hosts Salesforce Sponsor message Start building & deploying your apps in the cloud with free developer environments fromdeveloper.salesforce.comandwww.heroku.com Continue the conversation at our Slack Group:londonjavacommunity.slack.com- Sign up here if you're not a member:https://barrycranford.typeform.com/to/IIyQxd
**Please note this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place** 48HR RAFFLE: 1 Ticket for DotScale Paris, 25 April 2016 dotScale is a very large European tech conference on Scalability, DevOps and Distributed Systems. Its fourth edition happens on April 25th. Its a full-day conference entirely in English which will take place in a prestigious venue : the Thatre de Paris, an historical monument from the 18th century. 11+ speakers selected among the creators of the most popular open source projects will be on stage this year. The lineup includes the CTO of MongoDB, the VP of Infrastructure at Google, the Co-author of the GIMP and many others will be on stage this year. If you want to have a look at how dotScale unfolds, check this 2min recap of last year edition : https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Unq0YH80R9s About the organisers: dotConferences is a series of technology events in Paris created in 2012. We want to bring an unheard-of, TED-like level of quality to tech conferences. To enter this raffle: Simply RSVP to this event, and well draw a lucky winner and send their name and email to the organisers so a ticket can be issued. Conference discount: If you are not lucky enough to win, we have been able to secure a 30% discount code for London Java Community: LONDONJC Direct link for the discount: https://dotscale2016.eventbrite.com/?discount=LONDONJC **Please note that the prize is for entry to the conference only, and does not include travel or accommodation costs.** Raffle organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/
An experience of a product is set by everyone on the team, from the aesthetics to the validation on a field. Bringing UX into the back-end will explore the actual methods we can use in Java and HTML/CSS to help us ensure we're building an accessible experience. We'll also be taking on these responsibilities, how our chosen language helps us do so and see the benefits of why we should be doing this. Bio: Elizabeth Chesters is a Client Integration Engineer, working in telephony & security with Java and Node by day, and a volunteer UX by night. She is an ex-committee member of the Manchester Java Community. Having spoken in numerous countries about this topic, it is one dear to her and is persistent in her research in UX.Agenda: 18:15: Doors open 18:30: Lightning Talk - Daniel Shearer Invalid Validation 18:40: Main presentation (1 hour approx. including Q&A) Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/ Continue the conversation at our Slack Group:londonjavacommunity.slack.com- Sign up here if you're not a member:https://barrycranford.typeform.com/to/IIyQxd
We are pleased to bring you the ninth event of the Docklands.LJC; a group within the main London Java Community that focuses on the developer community in and around Docklands on the 2nd Tuesday of each month. Our speakers this month are Andy Ben-Dyke and Graeme Seaton. Please note the location for this event as it is in a different location from the previous one. As the spaces are limited, places will be preferentially allocated to those who have attended previously and first-timers; those with a low attendance record may be removed. Andy Ben-DykeBig Data, Java, and Microservices: tales from the trenches Having had 8 years of Big Data Agile development experience, I thought working on an IoT project using microservices would be straightforward. Theres nothing new under the sun, right? After a few weeks of learning buzzwords and acronyms, I could make a reasonable stab of explaining the difference between Ansible and Docker (as a trivial example). However, were now a couple of months into the project, and I want to share the success stories and horror stories with the audience. Graeme SeatonApplying Big Data A great deal of time and energy is spent on Big Data initiatives. But the question remains, what are the drivers behind these initiatives and how do you approach using all of that data? I would like to share some thoughts about the application of Big Data. Who should attend Anyone who is interested in Java or JVM based technologies, whether in the Docklands or further afield, is welcome to attend. Bios ANDY BEN-DYKEVP Engineering, IoT Analytics, Teradata Labs Andy was one of the founding members of RainStor and a driving force behind the original data management technology before becoming the Product Architect in 2006, and then the CTO in 2007. The RainStor Big Data retention platform was acquired by Teradata late 2014. Since joining Teradata, Andy now heads up the IoT Analytics team, tasked with building a Big Data micro-service architecture for work-load management. GRAEME SEATONData Engineering Lead, Application Workgroup EMEA, EMC Graeme heads up the Data Engineering team within the Application Workgroup for EMC EMEA. He has worked for a variety of companies ranging from large Data Infrastructure providers through to a number of Big Data-related startups. Graeme has been involved with Big Data before it became described as such and has been using Hadoop since it was first released. Please note Your full name is required in order to attend. If your username is not your full name, please add it when registering, otherwise you will be removed from the event. Arrive from 18:20, talks will begin promptly at 18:30. Attendees arriving after 18:40 will not be admitted. Nearest coffee shop Caf Brera, One Canada Square, Cabot Place, if you arrive early. Continue the conversation at our Slack Group:londonjavacommunity.slack.com- you cansign up here if you're not a member:
The world today moves very rapidly. Developers no longer have time to build, run and maintain large monolithic applications. With the cloud becoming more of reality compared to being just a dream, a new development methodology is required to feed business that starve to be more and more connected. In this presentation Senaka will discuss some of the biggest businesses in the UK build industry leading applications on the cloud using micro-services. We will be learning how to design and develop micro-services in Java while understanding some of the common micro-service architecture patterns in web applications, n-Tier business applications, service-oriented applications and RESTful API-driven applications for mobile/IoT systems. We will also discuss how we can leverage some of the new improvements in Java EE 8 when building micro-services. From a developer's point of view, the idea is to give an overall heads up of how to develop micro-services in Java in terms of porting existing applications to the cloud, developing and extended applications running on cloud infrastructure and also whats coming up and how to be prepared. The presentation will involve some slides and examples of technology in use based on pre-built source code. Bio: Senaka is a Solutions Architect at WSO2, an elected member of the Apache Software Foundation, and a member of several technical committees at OASIS. He sits in some of the key project management committees and contributes to a number of open source projects committed to the development of service oriented architectures based on Java technology. Senaka works with some of the worlds largest companies, helping them build next generation cloud solutions. He has spoken and continues to speak in some of the popular software conferences around the globe.Agenda: 18:15: Doors open 18:30: Main presentation (1 hour approx. including Q&A) *Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link:https://skillsmatter.com/meetups/7694-london-java-community Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/ Continue the conversation at our Slack Group:londonjavacommunity.slack.com- Sign up here if you're not a member:https://barrycranford.typeform.com/to/IIyQxd
hackthetower.co.ukis a hack day for any and all developers to come and collaborate on projects or discover new technologies together and enhance their skills. Bring your laptop and your desire to try things out & have fun! We are also co-hosting the Adopt Openjdk hackday & a Functional Programming with Clojure workshop. Come hack on the Java implementation that you use everyday! * Improved OpenJDK9 test coverage* OpenJDK Warnings cleanup* Small Bugs Fixes* The betterrev project If you're not familiar with the OpenJDKcodebase there will be people there to help you get started, including some from IBM who work on OpenJDK professionally. Rough Schedule You can get into the offices from around 10am onwards and have some breakfast and coffee, relax and take in the stunning view from the 26th & 27th floors of the Salesforce Tower (formerly known as the Heron Tower). 10.30am - Get together and discuss application ideas & things you want to try out.10.45am - Split into groups and get going1pm - Lunch time (sandwiches, fruit and drinks provided, requests taken)1.30pm onwards - Keep on hacking until you have had enough or want to go to the pub! Sign upPlease include a first and lastname when prompted to (if its not on your meetup profile) so we can register you with building security, otherwise you may have to wait in reception for a long time. Food & drink will be provided, thanks to our hosts Salesforce Sponsor message Start building & deploying your apps in the cloud with free developer environments fromdeveloper.salesforce.comandwww.heroku.com Continue the conversation at our Slack Group:londonjavacommunity.slack.com- Sign up here if you're not a member:https://barrycranford.typeform.com/to/IIyQxd
Modern operating systems are complex beasts, responsible for sharing hardware resources between many competing programs. For low-latency systems, sometimes it's necessary to subvert the OS to grab back the resources your program needs. In this talk, we will explore what is actually going on when you run a program, how much time it actually gets on CPU, and strategies to help make your code run as fast as possible. By the end of this talk, you will know how to tune your software and the linux kernel to get the most from your hardware, and more importantly, how to validate that your changes have worked. Who should attend: This talk will be accessible to anyone who is comfortable with thebasic workings of a modern computer (i.e. CPU/memory), and a roughidea of how an operating system schedules programs. These basics willbe covered at the start of the talk, and we will quickly ramp up todelving into the operation of the Linux scheduler in recent kernels.Anyone familiar with multi-threaded programming will gain somethingfrom this talk, and attendees will see examples of how to observe andmanipulate advanced operating system components. Bio: Mark is a Senior Developer at LMAX Exchange. He has been working on low-latency systems for over 10 years. Mark has helped the LMAX technology stack mature from start-up level to its current form. Along the way, he has specifically focussed on the limits of Java performance and the interactions between the JVM and its host operating system.Agenda: 18:15: Doors open 18:30: Main presentation (50 mins approx. plus Q&A) Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/ Continue the conversation at our Slack Group:londonjavacommunity.slack.com- Sign up here if you're not a member:https://barrycranford.typeform.com/to/IIyQxd
Robots, Artificial Intelligence, systems you can operate remotely or with your mind technologically we live in very exciting times and there are teams working all over the UK on projects that illustrate that our imagination is the only limit to our ability to innovate. So come to the Mad Scientists event at IBM Southbank for a rather special evening where IBM developers, members of the LJC and University researchers will be demonstrating a whole range of the latest software and tech. Youll hear about personal projects, creations approach, the problems solved, the tech people have used. The flavour of the event will be more Tech Fair than conference or presentation, with a sharing of ideas and technologies. Amongst a wide range of talks and demonstrations well be hearing from: Dave Snowdon: Getting emotional about robots and clojure Social robots have become a regular feature of tech news over the last couple of years. Whether it's talk about Dr Cynthia Breazeal's Jibo robot, Aldebaran's Pepper robot working as a shop assistant in Japan & France or yet another robot platform being crowdfunded on indiegogo. But why should we care? Is a "siri on wheels" any better than a siri in the hand? Why would we want social robots to be emotional? This talk will skirt around some of these questions, deftly avoid mention of SkyNet and somehow show that clojure is the answer. Bio: By day, a mild-mannered programmer working on Virtual Desktop Infrastructure at VMware. By night, when not asleep, plans world domination by social emotional robots powered by python and clojure. Before he was virtualised Dave worked for Xerox Research in France and, back in the mists of time, developed one of the first distributed multi-user virtual reality environments as part of his PhD work at Manchester. Holly Cummins: That's not useless, it's just - very- unusual We are delighted to be able to include Holly Cummins in our speaker line up. Holly is well known to members of the LJC (her most recent talk to the community was Confessions of an Automation Addict) and shes a leader in innovative technology. She is technical lead in IBM's Bluemix Garage London, and a committer on the Apache Aries project. She is a co-author of Enterprise OSGi in Action and has spoken at Devoxx, JavaZone, The ServerSide Java Symposium, JAX London, GeeCon, and the Great Indian Developer Summit, as well as a number of user groups. Laura Cowen : Ambient Kettle Project Whenever I boil my kettle to have a cup of tea in Hampshire my Mum, in Lancashire, gets a tweet. Sometimes Mum replies to that tweet to say that she's having a cup of tea too. It's the closest we can get to having a cup of tea together most of the time. It's this sense of 'ambient connectedness' that we tried to develop with the Ambient Kettle project. I'll talk through how it works and then how we tried to capture the essential aspects of boiling a kettle and making a cup of tea to create a physical representation of my kettle. Bio: Laura is a developer advocate at IBM where shes building the WASdev developer community around the Liberty Java application server. She previously worked in UX and technical writing during her 13 years at IBM. She gets involved in cool IoT projects for fun. Laura has a BSc in Psychology and a Masters in Human-Computer Interaction. Shes currently studying for a PhD in Psychology. She also presents on the Ubuntu Podcast on open source and technology, and has organised and volunteered at open source community conferences like OggCamp. Agenda: Doors open at 6:00 pm with talks and demonstrations until around 9:00 pm. Venue: Boyle, Darwin & Fleming rooms, IBM Client Centre, 76/78 Upper Ground, South Bank, London SE1 9PZ http://www-05.ibm.com/uk/locations/sbnk.html Drinks and pizza will be available thanks to our sponsors, IBM. RSVP early to secure your place! **Important note: Attendees must have photo ID with them for admittance to the event** ** Please make sure the RSVP shows your full name** Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/ Continue the conversation at our Slack Group:londonjavacommunity.slack.com- Sign up here if you're not a member:https://barrycranford.typeform.com/to/IIyQxd
**Please note this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place** 48HR RAFFLE: 2 Tickets for Devoxx UK, June 8-10th, London From the organiser: The line-up for Devoxx UK is out and we hope youll agree that it looks pretty amazing. We wouldnt have been able to do it without such amazing JUG support, so as a thank you weve got two free conference tickets up for grabs for the LJC. Devoxx UK takes place June 8-10th at the Business Design Centre, London, for 3 days of conference sessions, Hands-on-Labs, hacks, quick-fire sessions, hackergarten and parties. Weve got a fair few Java Champions and experts joining us, such as Ted Neward, Trisha Gee, Hadi Hariri, Simon Brown, Martin Thompson, Antonio Goncalves, James Weaver, Josh Long, Liz Keogh, Matt Raible and many more. Theyll be a heap of cool new tech for you to try out - from workshops with humanoid robots to the low down on cool new frameworks for microservices. Weve also got tips on a heap of other useful things - from Java Collections to performance testing to how to defend against cybercrime. To enter you need to RSVP and answer the questions. The winner will be announced after the Easter bank holiday weekend. If you dont win, dont worry, well still be offering a special discount for LJC members, enter JUGLDN169 to get 15% off all Devoxx UK ticket types. **Please note that the prize is for entry to the conference only, and does not include travel or accommodation costs.** Raffle organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/
**Please note this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place** 48HR RAFFLE: 2 tickets for WS02 conference, London, 7-9 June WSO2 Eurpoe 2016 provides 3 full days of interactive sessions, inspiring keynotes and panel discussions on all things IoT, Analytics, API Management and more along with updates on ground-breaking enterprise technology including advantages of Digital transformation. Where: Park Plaza Riverbank When: 7-9June Who we are: We are a global corporation that provides 100% open source middleware solutions under Apache license. We are the only company to provide a complete middleware stack including cloud computing solutions (on-premise, private cloud, and public cloud). Global organizations such as eBay, Cisco, CSI Piemonte rely on our software for their day-to-day operations. Here is whats in store at WSO2Con EU: -Exciting customer presentations and case studies on successful deployments -Dedicated conference tracks for API management, integration, security, IoT, analytics, and cloud -A special Strategy forum targeting CTOs, CIOs and Technology leaders -Fun networking events and conference parties to mingle with the most innovative thinkers For more information visit https://eu16.wso2con.com Super Early Bird Tickets: Only two lucky members can win, but for everyone else there is the opportunity of 50% off the full price if you buy a Super Early Bird ticket before 10 April. These are on sale at https://eu16.wso2con.com/registration/ **Please note that the prize is for entry to the conference only, and does not include travel or accommodation costs.** Raffle organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/
We are pleased to bring you the tenth event of the Docklands.LJC; a group within the main London Java Community that focuses on the developer community in and around Docklands on the 2nd Tuesday of each month. Our speakers this month are Chris Seaton and Mark Needham. Please note the location for this event as it is in a different location from the previous one. As the spaces are limited, places will be preferentially allocated to those who have attended previously and first-timers; those with a low attendance record may be removed. Chris Seaton - Faster Ruby, JS and other languages using Graal and Truffle Many people run languages other than Java on the JVM, but the performance of these languages often lags well behind Java and native implementations of the same languages. Oracle Labs is researching a new way to improve the performance of both Java and other languages on the JVM. We are developing Graal, a new JIT compiler written in Java, making development on it easier and so enabling new research into optimisations, and Truffle, a framework for implementing languages that uses Graal. Our implementation of Ruby using these technologies is an order of magnitude faster than any other implementation of Ruby, on real-world code, and our implementation of JavaScript is competitive with Googles V8. Most exciting is the possibility of interoperability between languages such as Java, Python, Ruby, R and JavaScript, while also achieving this very high performance. Mark Needham - Using Clojure and Neo4j to build a meetup recommendation engine In this talk Mark will show how to build a meetup recommendation engine using the graph database Neo4j and Clojure. Well build up a solution from scratch which combines content based and collaborative filtering using Cypher - the graph query language - to find patterns in the graph and Clojure to do the data manipulation. Bios Dr Chris Seatonis a Research Manager at the Virtual Machine Group in Oracle Labs, where he leads the work to implement Ruby using the next generation of Java Virtual Machine technology, and other projects. In his spare time he used to develop an award winning medical app that is the first app regulated as a medical device in the UK, and ran a consultancy to help clients such as the NHS to develop revolutionary medical software. Mark Needhamis a graph advocate and field engineer for Neo Technology, the company behind the Neo4j graph database. As a field engineer, Mark helps customers embrace graph data and Neo4j by building sophisticated solutions to challenging data problems.Mark also organises theNeo4J London meetupand blogs at http://www.markhneedham.com. Please note Your full name is required in order to attend. If your username is not your full name, please add it when registering, otherwise you will be removed from the event. Arrive from 18:20, talks will begin promptly at 18:30. Attendees arriving after 18:40 will not be admitted. Nearest coffee shop Caf Brera, One Canada Square, Cabot Place, if you arrive early. Continue the conversation at our Slack Group:londonjavacommunity.slack.com- you cansign up here if you're not a member:
hackthetower.co.ukis a hack day for any and all developers to come and collaborate on projects or discover new technologies together and enhance their skills. Bring your laptop and your desire to try things out & have fun! We are also co-hosting the Adopt Openjdk hackday & a Functional Programming with Clojure workshop. Come hack on the Java implementation that you use everyday! * Improved OpenJDK9 test coverage* OpenJDK Warnings cleanup* Small Bugs Fixes* The betterrev project If you're not familiar with the OpenJDKcodebase there will be people there to help you get started, including some from IBM who work on OpenJDK professionally. Rough Schedule You can get into the offices from around 10am onwards and have some breakfast and coffee, relax and take in the stunning view from the 26th & 27th floors of the Salesforce Tower. 10.30am - Get together and discuss application ideas & things you want to try out.10.45am - Split into groups and get going1pm - Lunch time (sandwiches, fruit and drinks provided, requests taken)1.30pm onwards - Keep on hacking until you have had enough or want to go to the pub! Sign upPlease include a first and lastname when prompted to (if its not on your meetup profile) so we can register you with building security, otherwise you may have to wait in reception for a long time. Food & drink will be provided, thanks to our hosts Salesforce Sponsor message Start building & deploying your apps in the cloud with free developer environments fromdeveloper.salesforce.comandwww.heroku.com Continue the conversation at our Slack Group:londonjavacommunity.slack.com- Sign up here if you're not a member:https://barrycranford.typeform.com/to/IIyQxd
Were delighted to welcome our speaker, Dirk Mahler, a member of the Saxony JUG. Static code analysis tools provide very fast and valuable feedback on potential bugs or violations of coding guidelines. The latter often include rules on the level of design and architecture but tools often operate on a lower level of abstraction as needed, i.e. language elements like Java packages or classes. Furthermore it is often quite difficult to express individual rules that are only valid for a certain project. The talk presents the approach behind the open source software analytics tool jQAssistant: It can be plugged into the build process and allows scanning of relevant structural information like Java packages, classes and Maven descriptors into a Neo4j graph database and applying rules to them. These rules are written as developer documentation in Asciidoc containing queries which may enrich the data by common technical or user defined concepts from the design or architecture language of the project, e.g. Entity, Repository, Module, Layer etc. Based on these abstractions constraints can be expressed like 'all JPA entities must be located in packages named model' or 'service layers must only depend on repositories but not on UI controllers. Bio: Dirk works as a Senior Consultant in the area of Java EE technologies with an expertise of more than 10 years. In his daily work he focuses on creating sustainable solutions in software design, architecture and integration and is author of the open source code analysis tool jQAssistant. Agenda: 18:15: Doors open 18:30: Main presentation (50 mins approx. plus Q&A) Join us for a drink following the event to continue the conversation. Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/ Continue the conversation at our Slack Group:londonjavacommunity.slack.com- Sign up here if you're not a member:https://barrycranford.typeform.com/to/IIyQxd
We are delighted to bring you the first in our series of talks and events for Junior Developers. The series of events will include talks and some practical workshops all designed so that those with minimal experience of Java can learn from experienced developers within the London Java Community. If you are new to Java, these events are for you! By the end of the series we hope you will be able to write simple code in Java and be in a good place to develop your skills further. We have four talks this evening each one lasting between 15 and 20 minutes with the opportunity for questions after each talk. At the end of the evening we hope youll have time for a drink at the bar and a chat with the speakers and other developers What is Java?: Mike Burton Mike will set the context for the evening and the series, with an overview of the language, the runtime(s) (Java ME/SE/EE), the ecosystem (OSS, Oracle, IBM, Azul et al) and the community (JCP, JUGs, Champions) Bio: Mike Burton has a BSc in Computer Science from Loughborough University. Soon after graduation Mike started his own consultancy business. Since 2004 he has worked with Java, JSF, Hibernate, JBoss Seam, Spring, Swing and related technologies (Maven, Ant, SQL, JDBC...) plus some PHP and Unix/ web-hosting. He has been involved in the OpenJDK and Apache Isis OSS projects and regularly speaks to IT groups and communities. Java Basics 1: Abraham Marin-Perez Primitives, Arrays, Strings, Objects, flow control, keywords and key concepts that youll need defined. Bio: Abraham Marin-Perez is an independent Java programmer, author, public speaker and Agile consultant. He works with other organisations and helps them achieve their objectives through a number of varying challenges, both technical and non-technical. He also helps run the London Java Community, and contributes as a Java Editor at InfoQ. Java Basics 2: John Stinson Methods, Classes, Packages Bio: John Stinson has worked in Software Development and Testing for the past 25+ years. He has worked in the finance sector since 1994 where he started as a Smalltalk developer, pioneering cross-platform development. He currently works as a software test automation architect at a major investment bank. John is Passionate about learning new technical skills himself and helping others achieve their own training and development objectives. Java Compiler and run-time basics: Omar Bashir Javac, Java, Hotspot, GC, Classes and Classloaders Bio: Omar graduated as an avionics systems engineer and transitioned to software engineering after his post graduate education. He has developed systems in diverse domains ranging from defence and telecommunications to logistics and finance. He has been programming in Java since its release in 1996. Agenda: Doors open 6:15. Please arrive promptly. First talk starts at 6:30. Coming soon Introduction to Java Session 2: Developing a Java app - Writing source code and your IDE - Guidelines to live by: SOLID principles and Java OO & Functional principles - Testing in Java (concrete and mocks) - Build tools and Running a Programme *Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link:https://skillsmatter.com/meetups/7985-welcome-to-java Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/ Continue the conversation at our Slack Group:londonjavacommunity.slack.com- Sign up here if you're not a member:https://barrycranford.typeform.com/to/IIyQxd
We are pleased to bring you the eleventh event of the Docklands.LJC; a group within the main London Java Community that focuses on the developer community in and around Docklands on the 2nd Tuesday of each month. Our speakers this month are Richard Warburton and Raoul-Gabriel Urma Please note the location for this event as it is in a different location from the previous one. As the spaces are limited, places will be preferentially allocated to those who have attended previously and first-timers; those with a low attendance record may be removed. Richard Warburton and Raoul-Gabriel Urma: Java Generics: Past, Present and Future Generics are one of the most complex features of Java. They are often poorly understood and lead to confusing errors. Unfortunately, it wont get easier. Java 10, release planned for 2018, extends Generics. Its now time to understand generics or risk being left behind. We start by stepping back into the halcyon days of 2004 and explain why generics were introduced in the first place back. We also explain why Javas implementation is unique compared to similar features in other programming languages. Then we travel to the present to explaining how to make effective use of Generics. We then explore various entertaining code examples and puzzlers of how Generics are used today. Finally, this talk sheds light on the planned changes in Java 10 with practical code examples and related ideas from other programming languages. If you ever wanted to understand the buzz around value types or declaration site variance now is your chance! Bios Richard Warburtonis an empirical technologist and solver of deep-dive technical problems and works independently as a Software Engineer and Trainer. Recently he has written a book on Java 8 Lambdas for OReilly and helps developers learn via http://iteratrlearning.com and http://www.pluralsight.com/author/richard-warburton. Hes worked as a developer in diverse areas including Low Latency Trading Systems, Statistical Analytics, Static Analysis, Compilers and Network Protocols. He is a leader in the London Java Community. Richard is also a well known conference speaker, having talked at Devoxx, JavaOne, QCon SF, JFokus, Devoxx UK, Geecon, Oredev, JAX London, JEEConf, Codemotion and JProfessionals. He obtained a PhD in Computer Science from The University of Warwick. Raoul-Gabriel Urma is CEO and Co-Founder of Cambridge Coding Academy. He is also author of the bestselling programming book Java 8 in Action which sold over 15,000 copies globally. Raoul completed a PhD in Computer Science at the University of Cambridge. In addition, he holds a MEng in Computer Science from Imperial College London and graduated with first class honours having won several prizes for technical innovation. Raoul has delivered over 60 technical talks at international conferences. He has worked for Google, eBay, Oracle, and Goldman Sachs. He is also a Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts Please note Your full name is required in order to attend. If your username is not your full name, please add it when registering, otherwise you will be removed from the event. Arrive from 18:20, talks will begin promptly at 18:30. Attendees arriving after 18:40 will not be admitted. Nearest coffee shop Caf Brera, One Canada Square, Cabot Place, if you arrive early. Continue the conversation at our Slack Group:londonjavacommunity.slack.com- you cansign up here if you're not a member:
PLEASE NOTE THIS IS A BEMYAPP EVENT NOT AN LJC EVENT. THE LJC IS HELPING TO PUBLICISE THE EVENT. TO GUARANTEE A PLACE YOU MUST REGISTER YOUR DETAILS HERE: http://codinghour.bemyapp.com BEMYAPP EVENT: Coding Hour THE AFTER-WORK BATTLE FOR DEVSThis is a challenge happening in five cities across Europe simultaneously. Want to show the world who the best developer is? Looking for some competition to sharpen your skills? Join the coding competition in London at Meltdown! 342 Caledonian Road, London N1 1BB, United Kingdom. Come after work on Wednesday, May 11 to Code & drink. There are 4 JavaScript challenges of increasing difficulty. Challenge other developers and share your experience over a beer! Heres the agenda: 07.00 pm - Welcome! 07.30 pm - Registration on the Platform 07.45 pm - Challenge #1 07.50 pm - Challenge #2 08.00 pm - Challenge #3 08.20 pm - Challenge #4 09.00 pm - Winners announced! It is a low-key get together where we would like to give you the chance to develop your JavaScript skills. That means it also is a buy-your-own-beer concept : ) Please note that to secure your place you have to register at: https://www.eventbrite.com/e/coding-hour-london-javascript-algorithms-meltdown-registration-23983915537 For more information see here: http://codinghour.bemyapp.com
hackthetower.co.ukis a hack day for any and all developers to come and collaborate on projects or discover new technologies together and enhance their skills. Bring your laptop and your desire to try things out & have fun! We are also co-hosting the Adopt Openjdk hackday & a Functional Programming with Clojure workshop. Come hack on the Java implementation that you use everyday! * Improved OpenJDK9 test coverage* OpenJDK Warnings cleanup* Small Bugs Fixes* The betterrev project If you're not familiar with the OpenJDKcodebase there will be people there to help you get started, including some from IBM who work on OpenJDK professionally. Rough Schedule You can get into the offices from around 10am onwards and have some breakfast and coffee, relax and take in the stunning view from the 26th & 27th floors of the Salesforce Tower. 10.30am - Get together and discuss application ideas & things you want to try out.10.45am - Split into groups and get going1pm - Lunch time (sandwiches, fruit and drinks provided, requests taken)1.30pm onwards - Keep on hacking until you have had enough or want to go to the pub! Sign upPlease include a first and lastname when prompted to (if its not on your meetup profile) so we can register you with building security, otherwise you may have to wait in reception for a long time. Food & drink will be provided, thanks to our hosts Salesforce Sponsor message Start building & deploying your apps in the cloud with free developer environments fromdeveloper.salesforce.comandwww.heroku.com Continue the conversation at our Slack Group:londonjavacommunity.slack.com- Sign up here if you're not a member:https://barrycranford.typeform.com/to/IIyQxd
Before the even better news, some good news! The LJC Unparty (an opportunity to get together with other people in the community with some fun, tech-related events, beers and pizza) will be back soon. Date and venue to be announced soon, so watch this space. Heres the even better news. The Unparty will be bigger and better than ever. A few of us are getting together after work on Tuesday to put our heads together over a beer and plan an event that delivers on that promise. If you like community events, have an idea or two about the activities that could be ideal for us and have space in your diary, then please sign up now and join us in making your community even more awesome than it already is! (By the way, the drinks are on us!) We have reserved an LJC table from 6:00 and would expect to be finished by 7:30 at the latest. The Old Fountain 3 Baldwin Street London EC1V 9NU Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/ Continue the conversation at our Slack Group:londonjavacommunity.slack.com- Sign up here if you're not a member:https://barrycranford.typeform.com/to/IIyQxd
PLEASE NOTE THIS IS A LONDON JBOSS EVENT NOT AN LJC EVENT. THE LJC IS HELPING TO PUBLICISE THE EVENT. TO GUARANTEE A PLACE YOU MUST REGISTER YOUR DETAILS HERE: http://www.meetup.com/JBoss-User-Group/ Are you working with Hibernate ORM, Validator or Search in your projects? Would you like to learn about the latest Hibernate developments and what's planned for the future? Have you got any questions or ideas around the different projects in the Hibernate family? If so then come and meet the Hibernate team. In no-slides mode, we'll discuss: * Hibernate ORM (especially the latest versions 5.0/5.1) * Hibernate Search (full-text search for your application) * Hibernate Validator and Bean Validation (constraint-based validation of object models) * Hibernate OGM (object mapper for NoSQL databases) We'll talk about a wide range of topics such as integration of Hibernate/JPA with Elasticsearch, an outlook on Bean Validation 2.0 and super-easy integration of NoSQL into your existing Hibernate-based applications. Come with your questions, we will come with ours :-) Team: Sanne Grinovero, Emmanuel Bernard, Davide DAlto, Gunnar Morling, Guillaume Smet, Andrea Borier Where: Red Hat Offices, 4th Floor Peninsular House 30-36 Monument Street, 4th floor, London EC3R 8NB PLEASE NOTE THIS IS A LONDON JBOSS EVENT NOT AN LJC EVENT. THE LJC IS HELPING TO PUBLICISE THE EVENT. TO GUARANTEE A PLACE YOU MUST REGISTER YOUR DETAILS HERE: http://www.meetup.com/JBoss-User-Group/
**Please note this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place** 48HR RAFFLE: 1 Ticket for BCS SPA conference June 27-29th, London SPA is the annual 3-day London conference of the British Computer Society (BCS) SPA group. The conference is quite unique as its very interactive, with nearly all of the sessions involving coding, group work or other practical activity. This year there are sessions on Kotlin, agility beyond the development team, big-data, cloud databases, pathfinding algorithms, scaling agile, starting with Kanban, introducing deep learning and much more. Something for everyone! The full conference programme is here: http://spaconference.org/spa2016/programme.html The conference has a strong community around it, with many people coming back year after year, and the organisers would love to welcome some LJCers to the SPA community this year. So they have made the generous offer of a free ticket for the conference for one lucky winner and a discount code for everyone else, and hope that theyll see you at the conference. The conference is deliberately priced very economically, due to sponsorship and BCS support. The regular ticket price is 350 for the three days, and LJC members can use discount code 1990-IVW-KCV to gain a 15% discount on this price until 5th June. About the organisers: SPA is the Software Practice Advancement specialist group of BCS, The Chartered Institute for IT. You can read their aims and mission here. SPA: - organise regular events in three centres: London, Cambridge and Guernsey. - organise and run the SPA conference series and occasional lecture series - run a Wiki for members **Please note that the prize is for entry to the conference only, and does not include travel or accommodation costs.** Raffle organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/
We are delighted to welcome tonight's speaker, Nitsan Wakart. Exploring novel message passing data structures outside the JDK and what they offer in terms of usage patterns, performance and possibilities. We'll be looking at: JCTools queues: placing limitations on producer/consumer counts Disruptor: building a pipeline of workers on top of a pre-allocated buffer Aeron IPC: offheap, cross platform (Java/Native), binary message passing JCTools ITC channels: Proxy calls to other threads using custom-generated queues Bio: A blogger (psy-lob-saw.blogspot.com) and a coder with a pedantic passion for performance. My work has spanned army intelligence systems, dot.com era startups, financial institutions and innovative product companies. The Lead Performance Eng. for Azul Systems by day (working on Zing, best JVM ever :-)), main contributor to lock free data structures library JCTools by night. There will also be a lightning talk from Victoria Alexis, representing LJC sponsors Venturespring, to introduce you to the new Future of Retailing challenge. Agenda: 6:15 Doors open 6:30 Lightning talk - introducing The Future of Retail coding challenge: Victoria Alexis, Venturespring 6:35 (approx) Nitsan Wakart - Beyond queues. After the talk please stay and continue the conversation over a drink or a coffee in the Code Node bar after the talk, courtesy of LJC sponsors Venturespring and RecWorks. *Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link:https://skillsmatter.com/meetups/7922-beyond-queues-novel-concurrent-message-passing-techniques Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/ Continue the conversation at our Slack Group:londonjavacommunity.slack.com- Sign up here if you're not a member:https://barrycranford.typeform.com/to/IIyQxd
hackthetower.co.uk is a hack day for any and all developers to come and collaborate on projects or discover new technologies together and enhance their skills. Bring your laptop and your desire to try things out & have fun! We are also co-hosting the Adopt Openjdk hackday, Clojure Workshop & Lightbend hackday Come hack on the Java implementation that you use everyday! * Improved OpenJDK 9 test coverage* OpenJDK Warnings cleanup* Small Bugs Fixes* The betterrev project If you're not familiar with the OpenJDK codebase there will be people there to help you get started, including some from IBM who work on OpenJDK professionally. Rough Schedule You can get into the offices from around 10am onwards and have some breakfast and coffee, relax and take in the stunning view from the 26th & 27th floors of the Salesforce Tower. 10.00am - doors open10.30am - Get together and discuss application ideas & things you want to try out. 10.45am - Split into groups and get going1pm - Lunch time (sandwiches, fruit and drinks provided, requests taken)1.30pm onwards - Keep on hacking until you have had enough or want to go to the pub! Sign upPlease include a first and last name when prompted to (if its not on your meetup profile) so we can register you with building security, otherwise you may have to wait in reception for a long time. Food & drink will be provided, thanks to our hosts Salesforce Sponsor message Start building & deploying your apps in the cloud with free developer environments from developer.salesforce.com and www.heroku.com Continue the conversation at our Slack Group:londonjavacommunity.slack.com - Sign up here if you're not a member:https://barrycranford.typeform.com/to/IIyQxd
We are pleased to bring you the twelfth event of the Docklands.LJC; a group within the main London Java Community that focuses on the developer community in and around Docklands on the second Tuesday of each month. Our speakers this month are Alex Blewitt, Ben Evans andJim Gough. Please note the location for this event as it is in a different location from the previous one. As the spaces are limited, places will be preferentially allocated to those who have attended previously and first-timers; those with a low attendance record may be removed. Alex Blewitt - HotSpot under the Hood The HotSpot JVM, which has been powering Java since its inclusion in 1.3 in2000, is responsible for executing Java bytecode efficiently and portablyacross a number of different platforms. It uses an interpreter to bootstrap theJava runtime quickly, and switches to one of two JITs in order to performoptimisations and translation to native code. This talk will show how HotSpot represents Java objects in memory, and how JVMflags and memory settings affect the way that the objects are laid out. We willthen look at how bytecode is compiled into native code to gain the fastestexecution time. Finally, we will look at the way in which common datastructures and performance patterns have changed over time, leading torecommendations of replacements for old patterns which are now anti-patterns inexisting code. Ben Evans and Jim Gough - Microbenchmarking with Java This talk will firstly attempt to persuade you that Microbenchmarkingis not a good idea and in fact can lead to inaccurate assumptions and poorsystems as a result. Despite this warning there will be times when it isnecessary, particularly for API designers and writers. The talk will introduce JMH and talk about how to use it and some of whatis happening behind the scenes to make your benchmark as accurateas possible. It is impossible to gain a good microbenchmarking result, so we willdiscuss some of the outputs from JMH and how they should be reasonedto attempt to avoid a poor assumption. Bios Dr Alex Blewitthas beenworking with Java since its initial release in 1995 and been involved in theEclipse and OSGi communities for over a decade. He is a senior technicalarchitect at Credit Suisse (whom he represents on the JCP committee), writesfor InfoQ and has published several books on Eclipse and other technologies. He currently lives in Milton Keynes, and when the weather is nice, has beenknown to go flying from the local Cranfield airport. Alex blogs at alblue.bandlem.comand is on Twitter as@alblue. Ben Evansis the co-founder and Technology Fellow of jClarity, a startup whichdelivers performance tools to help development and ops teams. He helps toorganise the London Java Community, and represents them on the Java CommunityProcess Executive Committee where he works to define new standards for the Javaecosystem. He is a Java Champion; JavaOne Rockstar; co-author of "TheWell-Grounded Java Developer" and a regular public speaker on the Javaplatform, performance, concurrency, and related topics. Jim Goughis a technical trainer and writerspecialisingin Java. He spendsthe majority of his time teaching advanced Java and concurrency courses todevelopers with varying technical backgrounds. He serves on the Java CommunityProcess Executive Committee and contributed towards the design and testing ofJSR-310, the date time system built for Java 8. James is a regular publicspeaker and helps organise events at the London Java Community. Please note Your full name is required in order to attend. If your username is not your full name, please add it when registering, otherwise you will be removed from the event. Arrive from 18:20, talks will begin promptly at 18:30. Attendees arriving after 18:40 will not be admitted. Nearest coffee shop Caf Brera, One Canada Square, Cabot Place, if you arrive early. Continue the conversation at our Slack Group:londonjavacommunity.slack.com- you cansign up here if you're not a member:
Containers are the latest hype. It goes without saying that Docker for the development environment is a good thing but what about running our production Java applications inside a container? This talk will cover all the pain points from running hundreds of JVMs inside containers over the last year. One of the well-known benefits of containers is that they provide a self-contained way to package and ship applications. However, it is already common practice to build fat executable jars that require only a JRE so what advantages would containers actually offer a pure Java shop? On my latest project our motivation is efficient utilisation of hardware. We used to run single purpose VMs, which makes sense for production but for our countless test environments it became prohibitively expensive. Even IaaS is still too slow to provision new environments and bootstrap new applications. This talk will be focusing on the downsides and lessons learned from running JVMs inside containers. We will cover the following topics: * The benefits, downsides and complexities of running a Java application inside a container. * Tuning memory limits taking into account Heap, Native memory, Metaspace, Stacks to avoid being OOM killed * Tracking native memory with jcmd * Avoiding the container swap problem * Operating system tools that are/are not container aware and when they will come in handy: top, htop, dstat, dmesg, systemd-cgtop * What tools should you include in your container for debugging/analysis e.g. the Swiss Java Tools https://github.com/aragozin/jvm-tools * External tools for monitoring containers: prometheus, cadvisor, heapster * Tuning thread pools for various frameworks/servers such as Jetty, Tomcat, Ratpack, GC * Motivation for moving to non-blocking frameworks like Ratpack to avoid the cost of one thread per request Bio: Christopher Batey is a freelance Software Engineer/Architect/Trainer. His speciality is large scale operational systems and he has worked on trading systems and online television services, as well as building off the shelf software at IBM. Likes: Scala, Java, the JVM, Akka, distributed databases, XP, TDD, Pairing. Hates: Untested software, code ownership. Check out Christopher's blog http://batey.info or follow him on twitter. *Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: https://skillsmatter.com/meetups/8150-the-jvm-and-docker Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/ Continue the conversation at our Slack Group:londonjavacommunity.slack.com- Sign up here if you're not a member:https://barrycranford.typeform.com/to/IIyQxd
Please register using eventbrite: https://www.eventbrite.com/e/2016-social-robotics-hackathon-tickets-24586054551 NAO, Pepper, Jibo, Buddy, Alpha2, Aido these are just a few of the social robots that are, or will shortly be, available. But what are these robots good for? Once you have a social robot what do you do with it? UKNAO challenges you to participate in the 2016 social robotics hackathon and develop an application in which a robot engages in meaningful interaction with humans or other robots. This hackathon is open to all developers interested in applications that make use of social robots. Well have some robots on-hand but if you already own a robot (no matter which platform) please feel free to bring it. To register and see more information please visit https://www.eventbrite.com/e/2016-social-robotics-hackathon-tickets-24586054551
Whether you are a new developer looking for your first or second job in the industry, or someone contemplating a move after several years with the same company, you are likely to be interested in the question: What does a hiring manager look for in a candidate at interview? From time to time the LJC offers sessions like this one, where you get the rare opportunity to sit down with hiring managers (wise folk) that are NOT recruiting so you arent focused on trying to impress them. Instead, you have the chance to ask them the questions that you really want answered before your next interview, such as: - What really drives them mad in interviews? - What makes a candidate stand out at interview? - What common mistakes do they see on CVs? The answers to these questions are often highly subjective and based around a hiring managers personal experience, so we are setting up a panel of hiring managers who will give you a range of opinions to these questions. Youll be able to put yourself in the mind of a hiring manager and improve your chances of getting the right job to help you reach your career destination as soon as possible. The event will work in a speed-mentoring format, which means youll sit in small groups of 5-10 people with hiring managers going from group to group to give a brief introduction and answering any questions you have around their recruitment process and view on interviews. RecWorks have organised this event, so as usual we will be onsite to help out and answer questions from our perspective as recruiters. Youll get more out of the event if you spend a little time preparing and thinking about your own approach to your next interview. What doubts or questions will you have that an expert can help you resolve? Please can you make sure you have taken a look at this presentation before attending the event as it explains the principle of career hacking and the approach that we recommend you take in asking questions at the event: http://blog.recworks.co.uk/career-hacking/ Continue the conversation at our Slack Group:londonjavacommunity.slack.com- Sign up here if you're not a member:https://barrycranford.typeform.com/to/IIyQxd Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - Check out the blog here: http://blog.recworks.co.uk/
Testing with Spock. The logical choice Remember the old days when you tested using JUnit? How boring it was? You made a lot of excuses to avoid testing your code. Luckily those dark days now belong to the past because Spock is with us. Spock is a Groovy-based testing and specification framework for Java and Groovy applications that makes writing tests fun again. We can write beautiful and highly expressive tests because of its DSL and all the power that Groovy provides us. In this talk with live coding you'll learn the basics of Spock and you'll see how easily you can test a Java application. After the talk you won't have any excuse to don't test your applications, so you have been warned before coming to the talk! Ivn Lopez is a Software Engineer and Systems Administrator with 14 years of experience. He discovered Grails 7 years ago and since then he develops almost exclusively using Groovy. He is the creator of some Grails plugins like Postgresql-Extensions and Slug-Generator. He uses Spock on every project he creates and he has been using it for the past 5 years. He's also the coordinator of the Madrid Groovy User Group (@madridgug), the organizer of the Greach Conference (http://greachconf.com) and a frequent speaker at conferences like SpringOne 2GX, GR8Conf, Greach, GGX, Codemotion, GeeCon, Spring IO, RigaDevDays, JavaCro... **Were sorry for the short notice for this meetup, but Ivn is in the UK for just a few days and we were very keen to hear him speak** Agenda: 6:15 Doors open 6:30 Talk starts Continue the conversation at our Slack Group:londonjavacommunity.slack.com- Sign up here if you're not a member:https://barrycranford.typeform.com/to/IIyQxd Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - Check out the blog here: http://blog.recworks.co.uk/
In a microservices architecture, each service has its own database. While this ensures that services are loosely coupled it creates a problem: how do you maintain consistency across services without using 2PC? In this talk you will learn more about these issues and how to solve them by using an event-driven architecture. We will describe how event sourcing and Command Query Responsibility Separation (CQRS) are a great way to realize an event-driven architecture. You will learn about a simple yet powerful approach for building, modern, scalable applications. Bio: Chris Richardson is a developer and architect. He is the author of POJOs in Action, which describes how to build enterprise Java applications with frameworks such as Spring and Hibernate. Chris was also the founder of the original CloudFoundry.com, an early Java PaaS for Amazon EC2. He is the creator of http://microservices.io, a website describing how to develop and deploy microservices. Chris provides microservices consulting and training and is working on his third startup http://eventuate.io, an application platform for developing microservices. Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here: http://blog.recworks.co.uk/ Continue the conversation at our Slack Group:londonjavacommunity.slack.com- Sign up here if you're not a member:https://barrycranford.typeform.com/to/IIyQxd
Drinking too much coffee while maven builds and deploys your service? Jealous of how your Front End mate just press F5 to "deploy" his/her changes? Mastered the red-green-refactor workflow and want to know what is the next step? Our Lisp grandfathers knew how invaluable was the immediate feedback that a Read-Eval-Print Loop (REPL) allowed during development and now Java 9 will have one. Perhaps you have read that a REPL is useful for "playing around" or for "small code snippets", but this is far from true. In this presentation, you will learn how with a REPL you can have a better and more productive developer workflow by building a Tomcat service, one bit at a time, without having to build, compile, package or deploy it. Demo will be done with a Clojure REPL but no previous experience with Clojure is required. This event will be accessible to all developers, but those with a year or more experience with Java will get most from the talk. Bio: Daniel Lebrero works as a technical architect at IG on the Big Data team. With 16 years of Java experience, he has become an expert on waiting for Maven to build and Tomcat to deploy *Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: https://skillsmatter.com/meetups/8087-using-repl-driven-development Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/ Continue the conversation at our Slack Group:londonjavacommunity.slack.com- Sign up here if you're not a member:https://barrycranford.typeform.com/to/IIyQxd
& Later atThe Old Fountain - 3 Baldwin St, London EC1V 9NU Roll up, roll up and join us for the London Java Community Summer Un-party! It will be on the 12th July at St Lukes Community Centre 90 Central St, London EC1V 8AJ. Thanks to community sponsors there will be drinks, snacks andan even stronger social vibe than at our normal events, but plenty of tech too in the shape oftalks from leading Java developers, demos of robot and more! Our main speaker is - Simon Ritter: Ten Years of OpenJDK: What Next For Community Java Development? It is now nearly ten years since Sun Microsystems open-sourced their implementation of the JDK. Simon will look at what that has meant to Java, how it fits in with standardisation through the Java Community Process and what the future might hold for community contributions to the development of the Java platform. Then we have a range of lightning talks, demos and blind ignite talks including: Steve Poole: Why dont you stop watching Youtube and go and become a Mad Scientist instead Chris Newland: Hotspot Performance Robert Barr: Docklands.LJC - what it's all about Dave Snowdon: Emotional Robots (demo and talk) Simon Maple: Dev Prod report 2016 Luc Desrosiers: The IBM mind controlled BB8 and more. To finish well be having some light hearted un-prepared just-a-lightning-tech-minute talks. This is your chance to take the floor for 60 seconds and maybe (probably?) win a prize!!! Add to this the chance to meet up with your fellow Java enthusiasts - well, whats not to love? - Never been to an LJC Event before? Wed love to see plenty of new members coming along, and you can be assured of a warm welcome. If youd like an introduction to an established member of the community wholl be there on the night and can introduce you some people and make you feel at home, please do let Maggie Cranford know. You are welcome to bring up to 2 guests with you. Hopefully they will love what they hear and want to join the community too! Finally, space is limited so sadly there is an RSVP limit. Please keep your RSVP up to date, so if you need to drop out someone else can take your place. Wed love to have a full house on the night. Please note: This event is being held at St Lukes Community Centre 90 Central St, London EC1V 8AJ. Agenda (all times other than doors open are approximate) 6:50 Welcome, arrival, beer, pizza, chat 7:10 Martijn Verburg opens the evening - what has happened in the LJC since the last Unparty 7:15 Simon Ritter 7:45 Lightning talks/Blind Ignite talks and demos 9:00 (approx) Just-a-lightning-tech-minute. With prizes! 9:25 (approx) Closing comments and a general tidy up. 9:45 Afterparty at a local pub. - The Old Fountain, 3 Baldwin Street, EC1V 9NU Event sponsored by our friends at: ADVFN Codurance Craft Rebellion Devoxx Haplo jClarity RecWorks Torusware Continue the conversation at our Slack Group:londonjavacommunity.slack.com- Sign up here if you're not a member:https://barrycranford.typeform.com/to/IIyQxd Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - Check out the blog here: http://blog.recworks.co.uk/
**Please note this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place** 48HR RAFFLE: 1 Free Ticket for Day 0, Day 1 and Day 2 of ThingMonk 2016 in London on 12th-14th September ThingMonk is the developer conference for people making the Internet of Things happen. This annual conference brings together technologists and designers who build core infrastructure for IoT platforms. You can expect to see 2 days of expert speakers, giving unique talks on everything from bots to industrial automation, machine learning to time series data, programming language choices to UX. These talks are by the people making the scene. As a special treat, we're also bringing back the famous ThingMonk Hackday. Sponsored by IBM, you can expect to have a play with the tech making IoT possible including Watson APIs, Amazon Echo devices and more. We will have a short Watson and Alexa Skills workshop to kick things off; no prior knowledge required. Just to keep you on your toes, we'll be coding by candlelight - a unique event to be sure! To learn more about the conference, please visit www.thingmonk.com. Don't despair if you're not the lucky winner - we are happy to offer you a generous 20% discount code for Day 0, Day 1 and 2, or a combination of all 3 days. To take advantage, please use the promotional code londonjavacommunity when you register. About the organisers: RedMonk helps people understand software developers and why they make the choices they do. We call developers the New Kingmakers. We learn from devs rather than spending our time with CIOs, purchasing and legal people. And we put on really good events. **Please note that the prize is for entry to the conference only, and does not include travel or accommodation costs.** Raffle organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/
https://skillsmatter.com/meetups/8326-cloud-native-microservices-with-spring-cloud In this talk we are going to discuss some of the key components of Spring Cloud. This includes the Netflix OSS integrations for Spring Boot apps which include Service Discovery (Eureka), Circuit Breaker (Hystrix), Intelligent Routing (Zuul) and Client Side Load Balancing (Ribbon). We will also touch on the Spring Cloud centralised configuration server and deploy these apps to Cloud Foundry. Bio: Conor is the CTO/Co-founder of Huffle Home Loans in Sydney, Australia. Prior to founding Huffle, he spent many years building financial platforms in Java spanning trading, risk & regulatory domains. You can follow Conor at Twitter at @conors10 Agenda: Doors open at 6:15 Talk starts at 6:30 Please join us at the bar to continue the conversation after the talk. *Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link:https://skillsmatter.com/meetups/8326-cloud-native-microservices-with-spring-cloud Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/ **Do you have any career related questions? Youmaynot be actively looking for work, but perhaps you are wondering about the current job market, considering whether this is a good time for a new challenge, or even thinking of something as routine as up-dating your CV and the best way to use it to get an interview. An experiencedrecruiter from RecWorks will be on hand at the event and they'll be happy to have a chat and help you hack you career in any way they can. Please just let Maggie Cranford know, and she'll be happy to arrange an introduction. Continue the conversation at our Slack Group:londonjavacommunity.slack.com- Sign up here if you're not a member:https://barrycranford.typeform.com/to/IIyQxd
We are pleased to bring you the thirteenth event of the Docklands.LJC; a group within the main London Java Community that focuses on the developer community in and around Docklands on the 2nd Tuesday of each month. Our speakers this month are Holly Cummins and Alex Blewitt As the spaces are limited, places will be preferentially allocated to those who have attended previously and first-timers; those with a low attendance record may be removed. *** Please note *** Your full name is required in order to attend. If your username is not your full name, please add it when registering, otherwise you will be removed from the event. Arrive from 18:20, talks will begin promptly at 18:30. Attendees arriving after 18:40 will not be admitted. Nearest coffee shop Caf Brera, One Canada Square, Cabot Place, if you arrive early. Dr. Holly Cummins - The Cuddly Throwable Application Server Computers are getting small enough and cheap enough that they're almost disposable. Its possible to sock computers away almost anywhere, and to connect almost anything to the internet. At the same time, the Java stacks that we know and love are also getting lighter and cheaper. That combination means it's possible to put a full spec-compliant Java EE server on ridiculously cheap hardware, and then throw it around the room without worrying too much about breaking stuff. This talk will explore the limits of embeddable hardware, and present a getting-started-guide to the Internet of Things. Whats needed? How much does it cost? Whats the best way of making an embeddable device talk to the internet? And why would you want a throwable application server? As well as hints and tips, there will be a show-and-tell session (or demo if youre discussing with your boss). Dr. Alex Blewitt - A Brief History of Unicode This talk looks at where Unicode came from, why UTF8 is important, and where character sets have evolved from previous generations. From simple symbols like @ and to complex symbols like national flags and Emojis, Unicode has played a part in all new languages since the mid 90s. Java was one of the first languages to pick Unicode as its representation format, and most new languages since have chosen Unicode as their program format. Languages created before have typically found the transition to Unicode difficult or impossible (see Python 3 vs Python 2). By the end of this talk, youll have found out more about Unicode than you ever really wanted to know. But at least youll know why you sometimes see or at the start of a document, why Windows sometimes produces , or why a flag can take up to 10 characters to represent. Bios Alex Blewitt has been working with Java since its initial release in 1995 and been involved in the Eclipse and OSGi communities for over a decade. He was a co-founder of the Docklands LJC, a senior technical architect at Credit Suisse (whom he represented on the JCP committee), and wrote for InfoQ and has published several books on Eclipse and other technologies. He currently lives in Milton Keynes, and when the weather is nice, has been known to go flying from the local Cranfield airport.Alex blogs at https://alblue.bandlem.com and is on Twitter @alblue. Holly Cummins is the technical lead of IBMs Bluemix Garage London, and the former delivery lead for the WebSphere Liberty Profile. She is a co-author of Enterprise OSGi in Action and has spoken at JavaOne, Devoxx, JavaZone, The ServerSide Java Symposium, JAX London, GeeCon, and the Great Indian Developer Summit, as well as a number of user groups. Continue the conversation at our Slack Group:londonjavacommunity.slack.com- you cansign up here if you're not a member:
**PLEASE NOTE THE CHANGE TO THE EVENT VENUE. This event is now taking place at University College London** We will have a live audience for the meetup (RSVP on this meetup page) but you can also tune in to the session athttp://virtualJUG.com/#live Not sure about you, but working with Java 8 made one of this sessions speakers lose all of his hair and the other lose his sleep (or was it the jet lag?). If you still havent reached the level of Brian Goetz in mastering lambdas and strings, this session is for you. And if you think you have, heres some bad news for you: you should attend as well. Youll see some surprising, bizarre, and inconceivable parts of Java 8, so you wont be (too) surprised when they hit you in production. Like any other puzzlers session, this one consists of two speakers, lots of puzzling questions, answers from the audience, t-shirts flying around, and a lot of funall for one purpose: to make you understand Java 8 better. **This is an LJC meetup with a difference: the speakers are joining us via Google hangouts. This is a new style of meetup that we are keen to try with our friends at vJUG - we think it will bring together the best elements of a live audience while making the session accessible to people all over the world who cant be there in person** Bios: Baruch Sadogursky (a.k.a JBaruch) is the Developer Advocate at JFrog where he has made a profession of speaking about the companys products: Artifactory, the Universal Artifact Repository; Bintray - the Universal Distribution Platform; Xray, Universal Component Analysis and Mission Control, Centralized Control and Management.For a living he hangs out with JFrogs tech leaders, writes code around the JFrog Platform and its ecosystem, and then speaks and blogs about it all. He has been doing this for the last dozen years or so, and enjoys every minute of it. Baruch is @jbaruch on twitter and mostly blogs on http://www.jfrog.com/blog/ and http://blog.bintray.com. He is a professional conference speaker on DevOps, Java and Groovy topics, and is a regular at the industrys most prestigious events including JavaOne (where he was awarded a Rock Star award), DockerCon, Devoxx, DevOps Days, OSCON, Qcon and many others. His full speaker history is available on Lanyrd: http://lanyrd.com/profile/jbaruch/sessions/ Viktor Gamov is a Senior Solution Architect at Hazelcast, the leading open-source in-memory data grid (IMDG). Viktor has comprehensive knowledge and expertise in enterprise application architecture leveraging open source technologies. He has helped leading organizations build low latency, scalable and highly available distributed systems. He holds an MS in Computer Science. He is co-organizer of Princeton JUG and New York Hazelcast User Group. He is a co-author of OReilly's Enterprise Web Development. Viktor presents at various international conferences, blogging and producing a podcast (http://lanyrd.com/gamussa). Follow Viktor on Twitter @gamussa. Agenda: Doors open at 4:45 Talk starts at 5:00 Talk closes at 6:00 The event is being held at University College, London. Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/ **Do you have any career related questions? Youmaynot be actively looking for work, but perhaps you are wondering about the current job market, considering whether this is a good time for a new challenge, or even thinking of something as routine as up-dating your CV and the best way to use it to get an interview. People attending this meetup in person may like to know that an experiencedrecruiter from RecWorks will be on hand and they'll be happy to have a chat and help you hack you career in any way they can. Please just let Maggie Cranford know, and she'll be happy to arrange an introduction. Continue the conversation at our Slack Group:londonjavacommunity.slack.com- Sign up here if you're not a member:https://barrycranford.typeform.com/to/IIyQxd
**Please note this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place** BANK HOLIDAY RAFFLE for a free Bronze Pass to OSCON 2016 The OSCON conference is taking place in London on 17 - 20 October at the Hilton Metropole in London, UK. http://conferences.oreilly.com/oscon/open-source-eu Conference organisers have offerered us a very special deal for LJC members: the raffle of a Bronze pass to the first two days of the conference, to cover: - All keynotes and sessions on the first two days of the conference - Access to the sponsors pavilion and all networking events - Three months of Safari pro Just RSVP to this event for a chance to win the pass. **For those not lucky enough to win, the organisers are kindly offering a 20% discount if you quote the following code PCLDN20 Please note that Early Bird prices apply until 15 September!! Register at https://conferences.oreilly.com/oscon/open-source-eu/public/register ** Explore all things open source at OSCON:Open source is everywherefrom the bottom of the programming stack to the very top. OSCON, the OReilly Open Source Convention, brings the software engineering and developer community together to explore whats new in open source languages, tools, and techniques. Sharpen your skills, keep pace with changing technologies, and connect with the intellect and energy that made open source what it is today. At OSCON, you can: Get expert training for your developers, managers, and other team members. Learn about our two-day training courses. (NB training is not included within the bronze pass. Details of packages are available on the website.) Hear the latest on new and hot technologies including containers (Docker, Kubernetes, and Mesos), microservices, Rust, and more. Meet with the creators and supporters of open source projects. Learn which open source models are right for allor even partof your business. Get answers about open source that you can trust. Learn how open source licensing worksand how to make it work for you. About the organisers: O'Reilly spreads the knowledge of innovators through its technology books, online services, research, and tech conferences. An active participant in the technology community, O'Reilly has a long history of advocacy, meme-making, and evangelism. OReilly Conferences give you the knowledge to change your business by bringing you face-to-face with leading technology innovators and practitioners. **NB. The raffle prize is for a Bronze pass for the conference only, and does not include training, accommodation or travel to the venue.** Raffle organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/ Continue the conversation at our Slack Grouplondonjavacommunity.slack.com Sign up here if you're not a member:https://barrycranford.typeform.com/to/IIyQxd
**Please note this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place** 48 hour Raffle for 3 tickets to Eclipse IoT day, London 12 September We've recently been offered three tickets to raffle to LJC members for the Eclipse IoT day on 12 September, part of the ThingMonk conference in Shoreditch, London which we promoted back at the end of July. The fullEclipse IoT Day @ Thingmonkprogram is online via this link. There is no other way to put it, the speaker line-up is great! Heres whats waiting for you at the Eclipse IoT Day: Boris Adryanfrom Zhlke Engineering will be talk about Information Models and Ontologies for IoT. Kamil Baczkowiczof DeltaRail will share the success story of using MQTT and Eclipse IoT components in DeltaRail's state-of-the-art signalling control system. Benjamin Cabfrom the Eclipse Foundation will give an introduction to the key challenges of IoT and an overview of the approach undertaken by Eclipse IoT to develop an ecosystem of open-source technologies that will help you connect and manage your current and future IoT devices. Dan Grossfrom Samsung US will be speaking about the new Samsung ARTIK IDE that is based on Eclipse Che. Patrizia Guflerof IBM will talk about how to connect Eclipse Kura to IBM Watson. Kai Hudallaof Bosch will tell us about the latest efforts within the IoT Working Group at Eclipse to create an open source based stack of components for implementing IoT solutions at cloud scale. And theres more! London has an amazing IoT community so there is also a great opportunity to meet people doing real IoT solutions. How to enter the raffle draw: For the chance to win a ticket for the Eclipse IoT day on 12 September simply RSVP to this event, and well draw the lucky winner on Monday 5 September. Please remember to give us your full name and email address in your RSVP so we can pass your details directly to the organisers. **If you are not the lucky winner, don't despair. Eclipse IoT Day is part of the ThingMonk Conference, and you can still take advantage of the generous 20% discount code for the ThingMonk conference for Day 0, Day 1 and 2, or a combination of all 3 days. Simply use the promotional code londonjavacommunity when you register. ** About the organisers: The Eclipse Foundation is a not-for-profit, member supported corporation that hosts theEclipse projectsand helps cultivate both an open source community and an ecosystem of complementary products and services. **NB. The raffle prize is for entry to the Eclipse IoT day only and does not include training, accommodation or travel to the venue.** Raffle organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/ Continue the conversation at our Slack Grouplondonjavacommunity.slack.com Sign up here if you're not a member:https://barrycranford.typeform.com/to/IIyQxd
Generics are one of the most complex features of Java. They are often poorly understood and lead to confusing errors. Unfortunately, it wont get easier. Java 10, release planned for 2018, extends Generics. Its now time to understand generics or risk being left behind. We start by stepping back into the halcyon days of 2004 and explain why generics were introduced in the first place back. We also explain why Javas implementation is unique compared to similar features in other programming languages. Then we travel to the present to explaining how to make effective use of Generics. We then explore various entertaining code examples and puzzlers of how Generics are used today. Finally, this talk sheds light on the planned changes in Java 10 with practical code examples and related ideas from other programming languages. If you ever wanted to understand the buzz around higher kinded types or declaration site variance now is your chance! Richard Warburton is an empirical technologist and solver of deep-dive technical problems and works independently as a Software Engineer and Trainer. He has written a book on Java 8 Lambdas for OReilly and helps developers learn via http://iteratrlearning.com and http://www.pluralsight.com/author/richard-warburton. Hes worked as a developer in diverse areas including Low Latency Trading Systems, Statistical Analytics, Static Analysis, Compilers and Network Protocols. He is a leader in the London Java Community. Richard is also a well known conference speaker, having talked at Devoxx, JavaOne, QCon SF, JFokus, Devoxx UK, Geecon, Oredev, JAX London, JEEConf, Codemotion, JProfessionals and Voxxed Days Luxembourg. He obtained a PhD in Computer Science from The University of Warwick. Raoul-Gabriel Urma obtained a PhD in Computer Science from the University of Cambridge. He is co-author of the bestselling book Java 8 in Action: Lambdas, Streams, and functional-styleprogramming published by Manning. In addition, Raoul has written over 10 peer-reviewed articles and given over 50 technical talks at international conferences. He has worked for large companies such as Google, eBay, Oracle, and Goldman Sachs, as well as for several startup projects. ** If you are interested in reading articles and training courses by Raoul and Richard, check out their website: http://iteratrlearning.com Agenda: 6:15 Doors open 6:30 Lightning talk - Steve Taylor 6:35 (approx) Main talk starts Please join us at the bar to continue the conversation after the talk. *Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link:https://skillsmatter.com/meetups/8314-ljc-meetup Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/ **Do you have any career related questions? Youmaynot be actively looking for work, but perhaps you are wondering about the current job market, considering whether this is a good time for a new challenge, or even thinking of something as routine as up-dating your CV and the best way to use it to get an interview. An experiencedrecruiter from RecWorks will be on hand at the event and they'll be happy to have a chat and help you hack you career in any way they can. Please just let Maggie Cranford know, and she'll be happy to arrange an introduction. Continue the conversation at our Slack Group:londonjavacommunity.slack.com- Sign up here if you're not a member:https://barrycranford.typeform.com/to/IIyQxd
We are pleased to bring you the fourteenth event of the Docklands.LJC; a group within the main London Java Community that focuses on the developer community in and around Docklands on the 2nd Tuesday of each month. Our speakers this month are Peter Lawrey and Stephen Colebourne As the spaces are limited, places will be preferentially allocated to those who have attended previously and first-timers; those with a low attendance record may be removed. *** Please note *** Your full name is required in order to attend. If your username is not your full name, please add it when registering, otherwise you will be removed from the event. Arrive from 18:20, talks will begin promptly at 18:30. Attendees arriving after 18:40 will not be admitted. Nearest coffee shop Caf Brera, One Canada Square, Cabot Place, if you arrive early. Peter Lawrey - Low latency Microservices in Java In this talk we will look at the differences between micro-services and monolith architectures and their relative benefits and disadvantages. We will look at design patterns which will allow us to utilize these different strategies as a deployment concern without significant changes to the business logic. We will look at how micro-service architecture can be implemented under low latency constraints of 10 - 100 micro-second latencies, in Java in particular, and how these strategies reduce the impact of serializing data and logging. Stephen Colebourne -Strata, the new Open Source Library for Market Risk Strata is the new Open Source library for market risk from OpenGamma,written in Java 8. It follows the many of the design principles ofJoda-Time and JSR-310, bringing easy-to-use and high quality opensource to the domain of quantitative finance and market risk. In thistalk Stephen will show how the library allows you to price financialinstruments like interest rate swaps and options, demonstrating thekey elements of the library including curves, conventions and holidaycalendars. So if you work in finance, or are interested in what awell-designed Java 8 library looks like, do come along and see howopen source can change finance. Bios Peter Lawrey has the most answers for Java and JVM on StackOverflow.com (~12K), runs the "Vanilla Java" blog with four million views and ~300 posts, is the founder of the Performance Java User's Group, a virtual JUG with 1800+ members, is the architect of Chronicle Software, an open source project for high performance, low latency libraries in Java, & is a Java Champion Stephen Colebourne is Engineering Lead, Platform at OpenGamma, thecreators of Strata. He is best known for his work on open source Javawith the "Joda projects". Of these, Joda-Time is the best known,inspiring JSR-310, the new date and time library in Java 8. As a JavaChampion and JavaOne Rock Star speaker, he continues to push Javaforward. Continue the conversation at our Slack Group:londonjavacommunity.slack.com- you cansign up here if you're not a member:
Earlier this year we started a series of events for junior developers who are keen to learn about using Java from senior guys in the community. There has been a break while we reviewed the planned programme based on what we learned in the first session. Well be running a full programme of events through the Autumn and Spring. The plan is that anyone who comes to the majority of the sessions will be able to write simple code with Java and be in a great place to develop their skills further. Today we have a practical workshop that will recap on the points made in the first session and give people plenty of time to practice. We welcome RSVPs from people who are keen to learn, and from people in the community who can help buddy new developers. The evening will be run by Mike, Omar and John, who ran the earlier session mentioned above. Theyll be setting up the practical coding and helping people individually as much as possible, but they will appreciate the help of other hands-on developers to work with people individually, so please do come along as a buddy if you can. Tonight well be covering: - Java Basics: - Primitives, Arrays, Strings, Objects, flow control, Methods, Classes, Packages and keywords and key concepts that youll need defined. - Java Compiler and run-time basics: - Javac, Java, Hotspot, GC, Classes and Classloaders Bring your own laptop to the event. Well be writing to attendees before the event with details of preparation for the event. Bios: Mike Burton has a BSc in Computer Science from Loughborough University. Soon after graduation Mike started his own consultancy business. Since 2004 he has worked with Java, JSF, Hibernate, JBoss Seam, Spring, Swing and related technologies (Maven, Ant, SQL, JDBC...) plus some PHP and Unix/ web-hosting. He has been involved in the OpenJDK and Apache Isis OSS projects and regularly speaks to IT groups and communities. John Stinson has worked in Software Development and Testing for the past 25+ years. He has worked in the finance sector since 1994 where he started as a Smalltalk developer, pioneering cross-platform development. He currently works as a software test automation architect at a major investment bank. John is Passionate about learning new technical skills himself and helping others achieve their own training and development objectives. Omar Bashir graduated as an avionics systems engineer and transitioned to software engineering after his post graduate education. He has developed systems in diverse domains ranging from defence and telecommunications to logistics and finance. He has been programming in Java since its release in 1996. Agenda: Doors open 6:15. Please arrive promptly. Coding starts at 6:30. *Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link:https://skillsmatter.com/meetups/8350-london-java-community Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/ **Do you have any career related questions? Youmaynot be actively looking for work, but perhaps you are wondering about the current job market, considering whether this is a good time for a new challenge, or even thinking of something as routine as up-dating your CV and the best way to use it to get an interview. An experiencedrecruiter from RecWorks will be on hand at the event and they'll be happy to have a chat and help you hack you career in any way they can. Please just let Maggie Cranford know, and she'll be happy to arrange an introduction. Continue the conversation at our Slack Group:londonjavacommunity.slack.com- Sign up here if you're not a member:https://barrycranford.typeform.com/to/IIyQxd
**Please note this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place** 48 hour Raffle to win one of 10 free tickets forOpen Data Science Conference Europe - London 8-9 October 2016 ODSC UK 2016 are offering 10 free tickets to what is going to be their biggest and best Data Science conference yet!More than 1,000 enthusiastic data scientists, developers, software engineers, practitioners, and C-level executives will be participating in more than 150 data science workshops, talks & trainings. Connect with some of the most innovative people and ideas in the world of data science, while learning first-hand from top-level speakers. As data science touches nearly every area of our lives, were offering FOUR CONFERENCES each featuring one of its many aspects including Disruptive Data Science, Big Data Science, Open Data Science, and Open Data Visualization.You'll be getting: 70+ Top-Notch Talks 22+ Hands-On Workshops 4 Complimentary pre-conference Introductory Workshops Access to Epic ODSC Parties & Networking Events For more information about the conference, tracks and speakers, check out theconference website. To enter this raffle, simply RSVP to this event. Well select ten winners at random, and well send you the code to use to redeem your free ticket **Please note that the prize is for free conference tickets only, and does not cover accommodation or travel costs.** For those not lucky enough to win a free ticket Use this code when you buy your ticket: ODSC-LONDON-MEETUP for a 40% discount Also - Please note that the organisers have 25 free passes to giveaway on their scholarship program. Students, minority groups, women in tech, non-profits, government employees, academics and startup-ers are all eligible to apply. Click here! You can follow ODSC on Social Media for the latest updates: Twitter:@odsc#odsc Facebook:OPENDATASCI Linkedin :Open Data Science YouTube:OpenDataScienceCon About the organisers: ODSC - Open Data Science Conference - work to bring together the global data science community to help foster the exchange of innovative ideas and encourage the growth of open source software. Raffle organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/ Continue the conversation at our Slack Grouplondonjavacommunity.slack.com Sign up here if you're not a member:https://barrycranford.typeform.com/to/IIyQxd
There is trouble brewing in the land of microservices todays shiny technology is tomorrows legacy, and there is concern that we will all be dealing with spaghetti services in 2018 It is often a sign of an architectural approachs maturity that, in addition to the emergence of well-established principles and practices, anti-patterns also begin to be identified and classified. In this talk we introduce the 2016 edition of the seven deadly sins that if left unchecked could easily ruin your next microservices project This talk will feature as a session in vJUG24, the first 24 hour virtual Java Conference in the World. More information is available athttp://virtualjug.com/vJUG24/ Bio: Daniel Bryant is the Chief Scientist at OpenCredo. His current work includes enabling agility within organisations by introducing better requirement gathering and planning techniques, focusing on the relevance of architecture within agile development, and facilitating continuous integration/delivery. Daniels current technical expertise focuses on DevOps tooling, cloud/container platforms and microservice implementations. He is also a leader within the LJC, contributes to several open source projects, writes for well-known technical websites such as InfoQ, DZone and Voxxed, and regularly presents at international conferences such as QCon, JavaOne and Devoxx. Agenda: Doors open at 6:15 Introduction: 6:55 Talk starts at 7:00 As the international vJUG audience will be joining us at 7 pm, it would be ideal to have the audience seated by 6:55, so please do plan your evening to arrive in good time. Remember that if you arrive early, you can always have a coffee or a drink at the Code Node bar, while you catch up with some emails, or meetup with other early arrivers! *Please note this is an LJC/vJUG event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: https://skillsmatter.com/meetups/8427-the-seven-more-deadly-sins-of-microservices Continue the conversation at our Slack Group:londonjavacommunity.slack.com- Sign up here if you're not a member:https://barrycranford.typeform.com/to/IIyQxd Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks,who are proud to support the LJC and to organise events for the community. As community driven recruiters we are also here to help if you need any recruitment advice or services: whether that is personal career advice or a chat about the next step in your career path, or professional support in recruiting for your own tech team. You can read about us on our website www.recworks.co.uk You can register your CV,contact us via the website or check out our blog for our career/community views and information.
Simulating APIs for Effective Testing: (Micro)Service Virtualisation in the 21st Century As we work more with distributed systems, microservices and legacy services, we introduce a web of inter-service dependencies that cause us to face many challenges across our development and deployment pipeline. Resource consumption, deployment time, our testing feedback cycle, third party service flakiness and costing can cause problems. This talk addresses these issues by demonstrating how the technique of API Simulation (modern service virtualisation) can be used to overcome these issues. Well introduce the theory and practice, and use an open source tool named Hoverfly to easily produce and run third party services throughout your stack from producing test environments, to unit testing, and to being used with custom middleware in staging environments. Come and learn about (micro)service virtualisation in the 21st century, and leave the session with practical techniques to improve your application testing. Andrew Morgan is a Consultant at OpenCredo, and has recently started working with Go and Java Microservices. He has several years of development experience across numerous industries such as aviation, pensions and employee benefits. Andrew is passionate about working in an agile environment and following XP development practices such as pair programming and TDD. Finding the venue: There is a map here:http://www.ucl.ac.uk/maps/jz-young-lt If you haven't been to a meetup at UCL before, please allow a few extra minutes to find the room. We'll put up extra signage to help you. Agenda: Doors open at 6:15 Talk starts at 6:30 Do you need to rush away after the talk? We hope you'll have time to join other community members for a chat and a drink at a local pub after the talk. Continue the conversation at our Slack Group: londonjavacommunity.slack.com- Sign up here if you're not a member:https://barrycranford.typeform.com/to/IIyQxd Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks RecWorks are proud to support the London Java Community and to organise events for the community. As community driven recruiters we are also here to help if you need any recruitment advice or services: whether that is personal career advice or a chat about the next step in your career path, or professional support in recruiting for your own tech team. You can read about us on our website www.recworks.co.uk You can register your CV or contact us via the website.
Java: past present and future We are delighted to be able to announce that on the 6th October our friends at IP EXPO Europe are hosting a special LJC Meetup with the Father of Java himself James Gosling, live at the expo. Entry is free - provided you register with the EXPO before 4 October, after which time entry will cost 35. We do realise that it could be difficult for people to attend a meetup during working hours, but James has a full schedule and we feel we cant miss this opportunity to meet him. We are also booking a videographer to record the meetup and make it available on the LJC You Tube channel after the event. James will be talking about how Java started, and the exciting world its going to be creating in the future. The LJC meetup will start at 2:00 pm, and James will be talking to us at 2:15 for 30 minutes after which he will be with us for at least another 20-30 minutes for a Q&A session. The session will finish with a selection of pizza, beer and wine. Essential information - How to register: - You need to RSVP on this event page to secure your place in the LJC meetup. There is currently a waiting list but do still sign up if you are interested in coming along. Plans will change between now and the date of the meetup, so places may well become available. Connected to this - please remember to review your RSVP if your plans change and you can no longer get to the meetup. That way your place will be released for someone else in the community. - As the meetup is happening during IP EXPO Europe, you MUST also register with them using the promotional code LJC2016 here [Register Here] to secure your free place. Please register now even if you only have a place on our meet-up waiting list, as there will be a charge of 35 for anyone registering after 7 pm on 4 October. - You can include up to two guests in your RSVP for our meetup. Please make sure you pass the promotional code LJC2016 to them and ask them to register on the IP EXPO site too. A final thing to note is that James is also delivering the conference keynote speech at 10 am in the morning - so there is an extra opportunity to get to hear him talk. He'll be talking about his current work in Liquid Robotics, including a short section on how Liquid Robotics and Java gel together. If you are aiming to spend the day at IP EXPO and to hear his keynote speech, wed advise you to arrive early to make sure of a seat!! Of course, the expo has much more on offer too! You will find details of all the speakers, exhibitors and seminars online at http://www.ipexpoeurope.com Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/ Continue the conversation at our Slack Group:londonjavacommunity.slack.com- Sign up here if you're not a member:https://barrycranford.typeform.com/to/IIyQxd
With cheap cameras becoming ubiquitous the camera has become probably the most important sensor for many applications. However extracting usable information from the images produced by cameras is non-trivial. There have been many published successes in recent years using deep learning (multi-layered convolutional neural networks) but its not always necessary to apply such techniques to get useful results for many applications. This talk will focus on classical machine vision using java and the OpenCV library. Well start with a quick refresher on how image data is represented and then cover topics such as determining if an image is blurred (and therefore unusable) and then explore a number of techniques such as shape and face detection." Bio: By day, Dave Snowdon is a mild-mannered programmer working on Virtual Desktop Infrastructure at VMware. By night, when not asleep, plans world domination by social emotional robots powered by python and clojure. Before he was virtualised Dave worked for Xerox Research in France and, back in the mists of time, developed one of the first distributed multi-user virtual reality environments as part of his PhD work at Manchester. Agenda: Doors open at 6:15 Talk starts at 6:30 Hopefully you'll be able to stay and chat with other members of the community in the Code Node bar at the end of the talk. *Please note this is an LJC/vJUG event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - YOU MUST confirm your place at this link:https://skillsmatter.com/meetups/8332-london-java-community Continue the conversation at our Slack Group:londonjavacommunity.slack.com- Sign up here if you're not a member:https://barrycranford.typeform.com/to/IIyQxd Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks,who are proud to support the LJC and to organise events for the community. Check out the blog here:http://recworks.co.uk
**Please note this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place** 48 hour Raffle to win one free tickets forCode Mesh Conference, London 3-4 November 2016 Code Mesh is a well established conference on the London programme and this year organisers are offering a free ticket to their 2016 conference to one lucky member of the LJC. Code Mesh, the Alternative Programming Conference, focuses on promoting useful non-mainstream technologies to the software industry. The underlying theme is "the right tool for the right job" as opposed to automatically choosing the tool at hand, whether the tool in question is technology, language, library, database, operating system or hardware platform. The scope of the conference is wide-reaching, and you really need to check out the variety of speakers and talk topics to see exactly what is on offer! You can read all the details on the conference site. To enter this raffle, simply RSVP to this event. Well select one winner at random, and well send you the code to use to redeem your free ticket **Please note that the prize is for a free conference ticket only, and does not cover accommodation or travel costs.** For those not lucky enough to win a free ticket There is also a 10% discount code LJC10 which you should quote when you buy your ticket. Please also check out the Code Mesh scholarship programme. About the organisers: Code Mesh want conference delegates to get a better basis for using the right tool for the right job. This coverstechnology, language, library, database, operating system or hardware platform as well as the more general idea of technique, style or paradigm. Code Mesh rotate vertical themes at each event they run, overing gaming, telecoms, finance, new media and health, looking at how tools are used to solve problems in these domains. Raffle organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/ Continue the conversation at our Slack Grouplondonjavacommunity.slack.com Sign up here if you're not a member:https://barrycranford.typeform.com/to/IIyQxd
Calling Java learners and experienced Java coders happy to help with one-to-one coding support! Please join us for the second workshop covering the basic principles of coding with Java with plenty of time to practice and ask questions. Tonights programme completes the agenda we started in our September workshop: - Java Basics: - Primitives, Arrays, Strings, Objects, flow control, Methods, Classes, Packages and keywords and key concepts that youll need defined. - Java Compiler and run-time basics: - Javac, Java, Hotspot, GC, Classes and Classloader The workshop is a relaxed and friendly way to develop your coding skills. All questions are welcomed - we are all here to learn together! Tonight's session will be led by LJC co-leader, Martijn Verburg. **Did you miss the September workshop? Its not too late to get involved. Come along tonight - there will be coding buddies to help you make the most of the evening.** Please bring your own laptop to the event. Well be emailing out the pdf with the preparation for the event very soon. Agenda: 6:15 doors open. Please arrive promptly. 6:30 coding starts. 9:00 move to the bar to continue the conversation *Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link:https://skillsmatter.com/meetups/8315-ljc-meetup Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/ Continue the conversation at our Slack Group:londonjavacommunity.slack.com- Sign up here if you're not a member:https://barrycranford.typeform.com/to/IIyQxd
Bored? fed up? in need of excitement? At a loose end? Then we have the ideal tonic for you. Yes. Another Mad Scientist event. http://mad-scientist-two.mybluemix.net/ Come to Olympia on the 3rd and 4th of November and see the latest batch of, hmm, stuff. IBM and the LJC are holding a mini exhibition (get this) inside another conference. Thats right weve invented Russian Doll events. Seriously though wed love to have you all come to this event. Its free! All you have to do is sign up for the London Big Data conference http://bigdataldn.com/ and then, when and if youre had your fill of BigData you can mosy over to the Mad Scientist exhibition area and meet Mad Scientists from IBM, Redhat and other companies and individuals. If you have something youd like to share yourself then use the contact form on the website to reach out to us - whether for just 1/2 day or the whole conference well find you a space. The main conference is expected to see ~5K people over the two days so its a great opportunity to show your creativity to a wide audience. In the evening of the Thursday 3rd November the Big Data conference is also hosting a series of other meetups http://bigdataldn.com/meet-ups/ so if you cant make the event during the day come along on Thursday evening and see what other user groups are doing The Mad Scientist exhibition event runs 9:30am-8:00pm on the Thursday and 9:30-4:00 on the Friday. **************************** The LJC is sponsored by RecWorks, community-driven recruiters of Java developers in London and founders of the London Java Community. Please check out our website to see our latest roles http://recworks.co.uk
We are pleased to bring you the fifteenth event of the Docklands.LJC; a group within the main London Java Community that focuses on the developer community in and around Docklands on the 2nd Tuesday of each month. Our speakers this month are Neil Bartlett and Phil Aston. As the spaces are limited, places will be preferentially allocated to those who have attended previously and first-timers; those with a low attendance record may be removed. *** Please note ***Your full name is required in order to attend.If your username is not your full name, please add it when registering, otherwise you will be REMOVED from the event. Arrive from 18:20, talks will begin promptly at 18:30. Attendees arriving after 18:40 will not be admitted. The programme is as follows: - 6:20 pm Doors open - 6:25pm Introductions - 6:30pm Speaker One and Q& A session. Approx 60 min in total - 7:30pm Speaker two and Q& A session. Approx 60 min in total - 8:30pm Wrap up & beer Nearest coffee shop Caf Brera, One Canada Square, Cabot Place, if you arrive early. Neil Bartlett - Java 9, OSGi and The Future of Modularity Java 9 is scheduled to be released in September 2017 and this will include the long-anticipated Java Platform Module System (JPMS).Eclipse and OSGi developers have been building modular Java applications since the early 2000's, but the capabilities of the new module system supplement those offered by OSGi and also overlap with them to some degree. How should we adapt to this new world? In this talk I will briefly compare and contrast the new module system with OSGi, and then move on to discuss the opportunities and challenges for Eclipse/OSGi applications. I will show a demonstration of cross-dependencies between OSGi bundles and JDK modules, and show the potential for assembling applications using a combination of Eclipse and new JDK tooling. Phil Aston - Diffusion: Anatomy of a high-performance Java server Diffusion from Push Technology provides real-time data distribution for web, mobile, and IoT applications. The server is written in Java, and can broadcast millions of messages a second across hundreds of thousands of sessions using a single JVM. Phil Aston, one of Diffusion's principal architects, will open the covers and present the techniques applied to achieve this level of performance. The talk will be of interest to those applying Java in high-volume, event-driven environments Bios Neil Bartlett is a principal engineer, consultant, trainer and developer with Paremus. Neil has been working with Java since 1998 and OSGi since 2003 and specialises in Java, OSGi and Eclipsel. He is the founder of the Bndtools eclipse plugin, the leading IDE for OSGi. He can often be found on twitter (@nbartlett) tweeting on all things #OSGi and answering questions on Stack Overflow where he is the only holder of a gold OSGi badge. Neil regularly contributes to the Paremus Blogs and is also writing his second book "Effective OSGi which will show developers how to quickly accelerate their productivity with OSGi using the latest techniques and tools. Phil Aston has been a coding architect for Push Technology for the past three years. In previous lives, he worked for BEA and Oracle, specialising in WebLogic Server and Coherence, co-authored two books on WebLogic, and created The Grinder, a popular Java load-testing tool.
Calling Java learners and experienced coders happy to help people new to Java with one-to-one coding support! Please join us for the third workshop covering the basic principles of coding with Java and plenty of time to practice and ask questions. Tonights programme continues the agenda we started in our earlier workshops: - Java Basics: - Primitives, Arrays, Strings, Objects, flow control, Methods, Classes, Packages and keywords and key concepts that youll need defined. - Java Compiler and run-time basics: - Javac, Java, Hotspot, GC, Classes and Classloader The workshop is a relaxed and friendly way to develop your coding skills. All questions are welcomed - we are all here to learn together! Tonight's session will be led by Mike Burton. Mikehas a BSc in Computer Science from Loughborough University. Soon after graduation Mike started his own consultancy business. Since 2004 he has worked with Java, JSF, Hibernate, JBoss Seam, Spring, Swing and related technologies (Maven, Ant, SQL, JDBC...) plus some PHP and Unix/ web-hosting. He has been involved in the OpenJDK and Apache Isis OSS projects and regularly speaks to IT groups and communities **Did you miss Workshop I and/or II? Its not too late to get involved. Come along tonight - there will be coding buddies to help you make the most of the evening.** Please bring your own laptop to the event. Well be emailing out the pdf with the preparation for the event very soon. Agenda: 6:15 doors open. Please arrive promptly so we can get the most from the evening. 6:30 coding starts. 9:00 move to the bar to continue the conversation *Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link so Skills Matter know who to expect, and put our workshop into a big enough space:https://skillsmatter.com/meetups/8584-london-java-community-december-meetup Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/ Continue the conversation at our Slack Group:londonjavacommunity.slack.com- Sign up here if you're not a member:https://barrycranford.typeform.com/to/IIyQxd
[PLEASE NOTE THE NEW DATE - this is the event originally scheduled for 2 November] A long time ago in a galaxy far, far away... Java open source developers managed to the see the previously secret plans to the Empire's ultimate weapon, the JAVA COLLECTIONS FRAMEWORK. Evading the dreaded Imperial Starfleet, a group of freedom fighters investigate the performance of the Empires most popular weapons: LinkedList, ArrayList and HashMap. In addition, they investigate common developer errors and bugs to help protect their vital software. With this new found knowledge they strike back! Pursued by the Empire's sinister agents, JDuchess races home aboard her JVM, investigating proposed future changes to the Java Collections and other options such as Immutable Collections which could save her people and restore freedom to the galaxy.... Richard Warburton is an empirical technologist and solver of deep-dive technical problems and works independently as a Software Engineer and Trainer. He has written a book on Java 8 Lambdas for OReilly and helps developers learn via http://iteratrlearning.com and http://www.pluralsight.com/author/richard-warburton. Hes worked as a developer in diverse areas including Low Latency Trading Systems, Statistical Analytics, Static Analysis, Compilers and Network Protocols. He is a leader in the London Java Community. Richard is also a well known conference speaker, having talked at Devoxx, JavaOne, QCon SF, JFokus, Devoxx UK, Geecon, Oredev, JAX London, JEEConf, Codemotion, JProfessionals and Voxxed Days Luxembourg. He obtained a PhD in Computer Science from The University of Warwick. Raoul-Gabriel Urma obtained a PhD in Computer Science from the University of Cambridge. He is co-author of the bestselling book Java 8 in Action: Lambdas, Streams, and functional-styleprogramming published by Manning. In addition, Raoul has written over 10 peer-reviewed articles and given over 50 technical talks at international conferences. He has worked for large companies such as Google, eBay, Oracle, and Goldman Sachs, as well as for several startup projects. ** If you are interested in reading articles and training courses by Raoul and Richard, check out their website: http://iteratrlearning.com Agenda: 6:15 Doors open 6:30 Talk starts Some of us will be chatting at the bar after the event. Please join us! **Have you got a lightning talk for the community? Please contact Maggie Cranford directly if you'd like to kick of the evening by delivering a short talk of you own! *Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: https://skillsmatter.com/meetups/8428-java-collections-the-force-awakens Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/ Continue the conversation at our Slack Group:londonjavacommunity.slack.com- Sign up here if you're not a member:https://barrycranford.typeform.com/to/IIyQxd
London Java Community Open Conference ***** NOTE ***** To attend you MUST CLICK HERE AND BUY YOUR TICKET ON THE LJC OPEN CONFERENCE 2016 WEBSITE Also, please ignore the message from Meetup.com saying that you're on a waiting list! As long as you buy a ticket from Eventbrite, you're in! ***** NOTE ***** Details of the Conference sessions proposed are being placed on the LJC Open Conference website Directions to venue(Google Map) The entrance to the IBM offices is on Upper Ground (Google Street View) opposite the junction of Cornwall street. You will see a driveway going up to the first floor of the building, walk up the footpath on this driveway to arrive at the entrance to the IBM building. Rough Schedule overview: 0830 Sign-in hands over to security (will be very slow)0930 Brief introduction, discussing how day will work and organising the board1000 Conference Keynote1040 Conference1240 Lunch1340 Ignite and Lightning talks1420 Conference1730 Conference wrap up+ Social event TBC Conference overview LJC Conference #8 is a one day event where you can attend a wide range of talks, workshops and practical sessions, drawn from the experiences of those in industry. Its a great opportunity to learn withup to 30 sessionsduring the day, including a keynote, lightning talks, open source project overviews, discussion groups and a whole lot more. What people said about our previous conferences (see photos): "Fantastic day, learned a great deal and made some valuable connections with people in the industry, more of these please""Amazing forum. Met some of the best minds in the field. Inspired me to learn more and work harder.. ""Brilliant time! Learnt a lot and met a lot of great people. Look forward to the next one :-)""An excellent opportunity to learn more about things I should know about but didn't" Those who want to can get more involved and are encouraged to share their ideas and experiences. You can also come up with ideas and sessions on the morning of the conference (as with an unconference)!! We encourage you to talk about a wide range of topics, not just specifics of the Java language but also Microservices, Docker, Machine Learning, Big Data, Spring, Open Source, Modularity and everything in between! Tools and methodologies are also welcome - e.g. software craftsmanship, BDD, TDD, Kanban, Agile and other practices that enhance our world. Due to the diversity of the Java ecosystem in terms of languages, we have many people from the Groovy, Scala and Clojure user groups who will be sharing their experiences. The open conference has a minimal payment to cover costs of food. No payment is made to speakers or organisers from this entry fee. If you are unable to pay via Eventbrite, please contact theorganiser directlyand we will try to seek alternative solution. Finally thanks to IBM who are sponsoring the LJC this year for providing their facilities for the conference. IBM are inviting all members of the LJC to take up a free trial of Bluemix using the following URL: bit.ly/BluemixforLJC Please do take a look. ***** NOTE ***** To attend you MUST CLICK HERE AND BUY YOUR TICKET ON THE LJC OPEN CONFERENCE 2016 WEBSITE Also, please ignore the message from Meetup.com saying that you're on a waiting list! As long as you buy a ticket from Eventbrite, you're in! ***** NOTE *****
Welcome to a practical workshop for anyone keen to practice their coding. If you came to the recent Introduction to Java talks and workshops (more details on the next events in the series will be posted soon) this could be an ideal additional opportunity to practice the material covered previously: theworkshop will be introduced by Mike Burton, whose name will be familiar to all those who have attended the Introduction to Java workshops. However,tonights session has no agenda sothis is a true community event where people of all abilities can learn, and work through practical coding together and maybe get the views of others on their personal coding projects. Come along this evening whether you are an experienced developer who is keen to share your expertise to support people who are just starting or whether you are just starting with Java and are keen to learn more. Youll need to bring your own laptop and your own coding projects or examples to work on. Mikehas a BSc in Computer Science from Loughborough University. Soon after graduation Mike started his own consultancy business. Since 2004 he has worked with Java, JSF, Hibernate, JBoss Seam, Spring, Swing and related technologies (Maven, Ant, SQL, JDBC...) plus some PHP and Unix/ web-hosting. He has been involved in the OpenJDK and Apache Isis OSS projects and regularly speaks to IT groups and communities **Please bring your own laptop to the event** Agenda: 6:15 doors open. Please arrive promptly so we can get the most from the evening. 6:30 coding starts. 9:00 move to the bar to continue the conversation *Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link so Skills Matter know who to expect, and put our workshop into a big enough space:https://skillsmatter.com/meetups/8583-london-java-november-meetup Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/ Continue the conversation at our Slack Group:londonjavacommunity.slack.com- Sign up here if you're not a member:https://barrycranford.typeform.com/to/IIyQxd
If you are working with Java you are probably already aware of the Java Community Process (JCP). It's the mechanism for developing standard technical specifications for Java technology and itgives you a chance to have your own work become an official component of the Java platform and to offer suggestions for improving and growing the technology.However you get involved, everyone in the Java community benefits from your participation and that's one of the reasons theJCPis open to everyone.https://jcp.org/en/home/index The LJC is the only elected Java User Group on the Executive Committee and were starting the new year with the opportunity to meet your representatives on that body and the rest of theJCPExecutive Committee (IBM, Red Hat, Oracle, Twitter etc) while they are in London. Some of the people most closely connected with theJCPwithin the LJC and the LJC.Docklands groups will be there too. Come along to Skills Matters Code Node for an informal evening where you can find out more about theJCPand pass your views on the future of Java to some people with the most influence over the direction its taking. Agenda: 6:30 Introduction 6.45 Networking and discussions *Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link:https://skillsmatter.com/meetups/8869-what-next-for-java-meet-the-java-community-process-executive-committee Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/ Continue the conversation at our Slack Group:londonjavacommunity.slack.com- Sign up here if you're not a member:https://barrycranford.typeform.com/to/IIyQxd
hackthetower.co.uk is a hack day for any and all developers to come and collaborate on projects or discover new technologies together and enhance their skills. Bring your laptop and your desire to try things out & have fun! This is a self-organising event, so please suggest some projects, programming concepts or technologies you would like to work on in the comments. Rough ScheduleYou can get into the offices from around 10am onwards and have some breakfast and coffee, relax and take in the stunning view from the 26th & 27th floors of the Salesforce Tower. 10.00am - doors open10.30am - Get together and discuss application ideas & things you want to try out. 10.45am - Split into groups and get going1pm - Lunch time (sandwiches, fruit and drinks provided, requests taken)1.30pm onwards - Keep on hacking until you have had enough or want to go to the pub! Sign upPlease include a first and last name when prompted to (if its not on your meetup profile) so we can register you with building security, otherwise you may have to wait in reception for a long time. Food & drink will be provided, thanks to our hosts Salesforce Sponsor message Start building & deploying your apps in the cloud with free developer environments from developer.salesforce.com and www.heroku.com Continue the conversation at our Slack Group:londonjavacommunity.slack.com - Sign up here if you're not a member:https://barrycranford.typeform.com/to/IIyQxd
Our series of events for junior (and mid-level) developers continues with a workshop on SOLID principles: one of the guidelines to live by in Java. This evenings workshop includes instruction and plenty of time to practice. Its designed to enable both beginners and those with some Java coding experience learn more, so by the end of the evening you will have moved your coding ability on and have a better understanding of the SOLID principles that are key to coding in Java. Youll look at a non-SOLID version of a simple app and then well collectively design a SOLID version that youll be able to code yourself. The advantages of SOLID principles will be clear by the end of the evening! This is a proper community event, with instruction from a senior member of the community and the chance to get to know fellow members of the community and support them in their learning, so the evening is also open to any experienced developers who may be interested in coming along and helping out with 1-2-1 coding. We hope to see you there! **Please make sure you bring your own laptop.** The evening will be led by Omar Bashir whograduated as an avionics systems engineer and transitioned to software engineering after his post graduate education. He has developed systems in diverse domains ranging from defence and telecommunications to logistics and finance. He has been programming in Java since its release in 1996. Agenda: Doors open 6:15. Please arrive promptly. Coding starts at 6:30. At 9:00 the workshop will close, but we can continue the conversation and questions at the bar. *Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link:https://skillsmatter.com/meetups/8892-solid-principles-for-coding-in-java Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/ Continue the conversation at our Slack Group:londonjavacommunity.slack.com- Sign up here if you're not a member:https://barrycranford.typeform.com/to/IIyQxd
We are pleased to bring you the sixteenth event of the Docklands.LJC; a group within the main London Java Community that focuses on the developer community in and around Docklands each month. Our two speakers this month are Dr Mohammed Haji from Couchbase and Christos Erotocritou from Apache Ignite As the spaces are limited, places will be preferentially allocated to those who have attended previously and first-timers; those with a low attendance record may be removed. *** Please note ***Your full name is required in order to attend.If your username is not your full name, please add it when registering, otherwise you will be REMOVED from the event. Arrive from 18:20, talks will begin promptly at 18:30. Attendees arriving after 18:40 will not be admitted. The programme is as follows: - 6:20 pm Doors open - 6:25pm Introductions - 6:30pm Speaker One and Q& A session. Approx 60 min in total - 7:30pm Speaker Two and Q & A session. Approx 60 min in total - 8:30pm Wrap up & beer at Davy's, our official watering hole Nearest coffee shop Caf Brera, One Canada Square, Cabot Place, if you arrive early. Dr Mohammed Haji - Couchbase Overview in Financial Services. Couchbase is one of the leading NoSQL document database with a distributed architecture for performance, scalability, and availability. It enables developers to build applications easier and faster by leveraging the power of SQL with the flexibility of JSON. Many financial services companies are now harnessing the power of Couchbase and are using it for a wide spectrum of use cases. This ranges from real time data streaming, 360 degree view of customer and predictive analytics. The talk will cover how Couchbase has helped Financial services companies in improving customer experience and enhancing quality of service Christos Erotocritou - Apache Ignite Apache Ignite is a high-performance, integrated and distributed in-memory platform for computing and transacting on large-scale data sets in real-time, orders of magnitude faster than possible with traditional disk-based or flash technologies. Almost exactly a year ago, Christos presented an intro to Apache Ignite to the Docklands LJC and is back this year for a recap on what has happened during this time and what is planned for the year ahead as part of the product roadmap. During this session youll learn about the Apache Ignite project and how it is used to solve some of the most demanding scalability and performance challenges specifically within the finacial services vertical. This is a great opportunity to meet one of the leading GridGain architects and thought leader within the IMC space and ask your questions. Bios==== Dr Mohammed Haji is a Senior Solution Architect within EMEA at Couchbase. He has worked extensively on large distributed, low latency high throughput mission critical applications. This ranges from investment banks, government, civil aviation, instant credit card fraud detection, and online gaming. He has helped many institutes that were facing constant down time, performance degradation to being the most highly performing and able to handle large major calendar events such as the Grand National, Cheltenham, Cyber Monday and Black Friday. He is an international expert subject matter in Grid computing (High Performance Computing) and Big Data with a PhD in this area. He has published in numerous international conferences such as IEEE, Oxford press journals, and industry magazines. Also recently he is a co-author of a book called Pro Couchbase Base Server. Mohammed has also worked and developed many computational algorithms such as machine learning, resources acquisition and securing resources on demand, with the invention of the three phase commit protocol. Christos Erotocritou is the principal solutions architect for GridGain in EMEA. Having worked as a software engineer and architect both in consulting services and a number of software companies specialising in high-performance in-memory computing he has hands-on experience with a broad range of technologies as well as use cases across a number of industry verticals. He has a passion and motivation for solving complex problems and finding new innovative ways to use technology. He is a subject matter expert in in-memory computing and Big Data with an MSc in Artificial Intelligence. He has been an active speaker for a number of years promoting various technologies and concepts at a range of international conferences and is an active Apache Ignite evangelist. His key areas of expertise and interest include In-memory computing, data grids, distributed systems, NoSQL, cloud applications & orchestration, service automation, DevOps, IoT, Middleware, Highly-Scalable Systems, Continuous Integration, Ultra-Low-latency Systems, Raspberry Pi, Arduino.
hackthetower.co.uk is a hack day for any and all developers to come and collaborate on projects or discover new technologies together and enhance their skills. Bring your laptop and your desire to try things out & have fun! This is a self-organising event, so please suggest some projects, programming concepts or technologies you would like to work on in the comments. Rough ScheduleYou can get into the offices from around 10am onwards and have some breakfast and coffee, relax and take in the stunning view from the 26th & 27th floors of the Salesforce Tower. 10.00am - doors open10.30am - Get together and discuss application ideas & things you want to try out. 10.45am - Split into groups and get going1pm - Lunch time (sandwiches, fruit and drinks provided, requests taken)1.30pm onwards - Keep on hacking until you have had enough or want to go to the pub! Sign upPlease include a first and last name when prompted to (if its not on your meetup profile) so we can register you with building security, otherwise you may have to wait in reception for a long time. Food & drink will be provided, thanks to our hosts Salesforce Sponsor message Start building & deploying your apps in the cloud with free developer environments from developer.salesforce.com and www.heroku.com Continue the conversation at our Slack Group:londonjavacommunity.slack.com - Sign up here if you're not a member:https://barrycranford.typeform.com/to/IIyQxd
Our series of workshops for junior and mid-level developers continues with a session on testing. This evenings workshop includes instruction and plenty of time to practice. Its designed to enable both beginners and those with some Java coding experience to learn more, so by the end of the evening you will have a better understanding of testing and its importance, plus practical experience with popular Java tools and techniques. This is a proper community event, with instruction from senior members of the community and the chance to get to know fellow LJC members and support each other in learning more about Java, so the evening is also open to any experienced developers who may be interested in coming along and helping out with 1-2-1 coding. We hope to see you there! We'll be in touch closer to the date with more event details, but for now you need to know that you'll need to bring your own laptop to the workshop with JDK8, Git and Eclipse (or other IDE if you prefer) with JUnit, Hamcrest and Mockito libraries installed. The evening will be led by Mike Burtonwhohas a BSc in Computer Science from Loughborough University. Soon after graduation Mike started his own consultancy business. Since 2004 he has worked with Java, JSF, Hibernate, JBoss Seam, Spring, Swing and related technologies (Maven, Ant, SQL, JDBC...) plus some PHP and Unix/ web-hosting. He has been involved in the OpenJDK and Apache Isis OSS projects and regularly speaks to IT groups and communities Agenda: Doors open 6:15. Please arrive promptly. Coding starts at 6:30. At 9:00 the workshop will close, but we can continue the conversation and questions at the bar. *Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link:https://skillsmatter.com/meetups/8893-testing-in-java Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/ Continue the conversation at our Slack Group:londonjavacommunity.slack.com- Sign up here if you're not a member:https://barrycranford.typeform.com/to/IIyQxd
Java Language and Platform Futures: A Sneak Peek Want to see where the Java Language and VM is heading? In this session, Java Language Architect Brian Goetz offers a sneak peek at some of the features currently under exploration for future versions of Java, both short- and long-term. Brian Goetz is the Java Language Architect at Oracle, and was the specification lead for JSR-335 (Lambda Expressions for the Java Programming Language.) He is the author of the best-selling Java Concurrency in Practice, as well as over 75 articles on Java development, and has been fascinated by programming since Jimmy Carter was President. Agenda: 6:15 Doors open 6:30 Talk starts Some of us will be chatting at the bar after the event. Please join us! *Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link:https://skillsmatter.com/meetups/8897-london-java-community-march-meetup Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/ Continue the conversation at our Slack Group:londonjavacommunity.slack.com- Sign up here if you're not a member:https://barrycranford.typeform.com/to/IIyQxd
Tonight, in conjunction with London Quantum Computing meetup, we are delighted to welcome a leading researcher in the field of Quantum Computing - Professor Winfried Hensinger of University of Sussex. In the Schrdinger's cat paradox, quantum theory predicts that a cat can be in limbo between being dead and alive at the same time. This Quantum spookiness stunned many scientists most notably Albert Einstein. Incorporating such quantum effects in new technologies may change our lives in the same ways as the invention of computers has transformed society. In this talk Winfried will provide an overview of the work to construct practical quantum technologies, in particular, a quantum computer. Computers built with quantum technology (a quantum computer) may fundamentally change what a computer may be able to accomplish. Many problems are so complicated that even the fastest supercomputer would currently take millions of years to provide an answer. Optimising financial transactions, machine learning, creating new medicines, understand protein folding and breaking codes are just some of the problems where the existence of a quantum computer could change everything. The team at University of Sussex are in the process of constructing a practical quantum computer utilizing ultracold trapped charged atoms. Winfried will give an overview of the work and provide an introduction to the technologies used to build such a device. He will also explain the phenomena that give rise to such a massive increase in computational power and he will speculate on some of the applications for this device. Winfried Hensingeris Professor of Quantum Technologies at the University of Sussex. Hensinger heads the Sussex Ion Quantum Technology Group and he is the director of the Sussex Centre for Quantum Technologies. Hensinger's group works on constructing a trapped-ion quantum computer demonstrator device, a quantum simulation engine as well as portable quantum sensors. Agenda: 6:15 Doors open 6:30 Talk starts Some of us will be chatting at the bar after the event. Please join us! *Please note this is an LJC event. Skills Matter are hosting this event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link:https://skillsmatter.com/meetups/9167-quantum-computers-the-world-s-most-incredible-machines Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/ Continue the conversation at our Slack Group:londonjavacommunity.slack.com- Sign up here if you're not a member:https://barrycranford.typeform.com/to/IIyQxd
We are pleased to bring you the seventeenth event of the Docklands.LJC; a group within the main London Java Community that focuses on the developer community in and around Docklands each month. Our two speakers this month are Oliver Hine from Credit Suisse and Richard Green from R3 As the spaces are limited, places will be preferentially allocated to those who have attended previously and first-timers; those with a low attendance record may be removed. *** Please note ***Your *FULL NAME* is required by building security in order to attend.If your username is not your full name, please add it when registering, otherwise you will be REMOVED from the event. ********************* Arrive from 6:15pm, talks will begin promptly at 6:30pm.Attendees arriving after 6:40pm will not be admitted. The program is as follows: - 6:15 pm Doors open - 6:25pm Introductions - 6:30pm Speaker One and Q& A session. Approx 60 min in total - 7:30pm Speaker Two and Q & A session. Approx 60 min in total - 8:30pm Wrap up & beer at Davy's, our official watering hole Nearest coffee shop Caf Brera, One Canada Square, Cabot Place, if you arrive early. Richard Green - R3, Corda and Kotlin.------------------------------------------------- Richard gives an introduction on how fintech startup R3 use Kotlin in their blockchain-inspired distributed ledger platform, Corda. Richard delves into the reasons why R3 chose Kotlin, the experiences the team had, the lessons learned along the way and the challenging future ahead Oliver Hine - Clojure: an introduction for Java Devs------------------------------------------------------------------ Clojure is a functional language, concise, thread safe, and very accessible to Java developers due to the JVM runtime and Java interopability. This introduction to the language, tools and possibilities they unleash will hopefully inspire you to find out more Bios==== Oliver Hine has a background in financial institutions where he worked to bring sanity to large scale systems before more recently delivering with JUXT one of the largest UK property websites. He is a Clojure enthusiast and an advocate of simplicity Richard Green is a Senior Developer at R3. He joined the company just over a year ago and has been working on both the Corda core platform as well as some various proof of concepts along the journey, starting off with the first initial public demonstration of Corda in the Barclays Smart Contracts Templates demonstration, the integration of OpenGammas SIMM pricing library with which he somewhat optimistically but successfully live demonstrated in front of an audience of R3s European members (even after getting his microphone tangled on a chair on his way to the stage). Richards technical career of 25 years has spanned across mainly the financial markets where has worked at ING, Warburgs, Deutsche Bank, Goldman Sachs, Swiss Re and Barclays. He also spent seven winter months in the sunnier climes of Iraq where he and fourteen of his military compatriots would sneak around in the dead of night helping obtain intelligence for the British Army, often being mistaken by friendly forces for an officer much to the continued annoyance of his Sergeant. Out of work, Richard tries to avoid spending time with his family by going to the gym, occasionally flying various type of RC aircraft and then climbing trees in order to rescue the aforementioned models We're Social and Online!See recordings of previous meetups at www.docklandsljc.co.uk and at our InfoQ area: https://www.infoq.com/docklands-ljc/ Follow us on Twitter to hear about new and upcoming events: @docklandsljc
hackthetower.co.uk is a hack day for any and all developers to come and collaborate on projects or discover new technologies together and enhance their skills. Bring your laptop and your desire to try things out & have fun! This is a self-organising event, so please suggest some projects, programming concepts or technologies you would like to work on in the comments. Rough ScheduleYou can get into the offices from around 10am onwards and have some breakfast and coffee, relax and take in the stunning view from the 26th & 27th floors of the Salesforce Tower. 10.00am - doors open10.30am - Get together and discuss application ideas & things you want to try out. 10.45am - Split into groups and get going1pm - Lunch time (sandwiches, fruit and drinks provided, requests taken)1.30pm onwards - Keep on hacking until you have had enough or want to go to the pub! Sign upPlease include a first and last name when prompted to (if its not on your meetup profile) so we can register you with building security, otherwise you may have to wait in reception for a long time. Food & drink will be provided, thanks to our hosts Salesforce Sponsor message Start building & deploying your apps in the cloud with free developer environments from developer.salesforce.com and www.heroku.com Continue the conversation at our Slack Group:londonjavacommunity.slack.com - Sign up here if you're not a member:https://barrycranford.typeform.com/to/IIyQxd
**Please note that this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place** 48 hour Raffle to win one free ticket forGeeCon Conference, Krakow, Poland17-19 May 2017 GeeCON is a conference focused on Java and JVM-based technologies. This 9th edition will take over a cinema for 3 days and offers a lot of great speakers including Monica Beckwith, Jonas Boner, Charles Oliver Nutter, Simon Ritter, Jaroslav Tulach, Nitsan Wakart. You can see the full details at https://2017.geecon.org/speakers/ Although we have mentioned the location in the title of this event, it's important to emphasise that this event is taking place in Poland!**Please note that the prize is for a free conference ticket only, and does not cover accommodation or travel costs.** To enter this raffle, simply RSVP to this event. Well select one winner at random on Moday 20 March, and well send the winner the code to use to redeem their free ticket. About the organisers: GeeCON is a conference focused on Java and JVM-based technologies, with special attention to alternative languages like Scala, Groovy and Ruby. GeeCON is a forum for sharing experiences about modern software development methodologies, enterprise architectures, software craftsmanship, design patterns, distributed computing and more! GeeCON is all about the community, it's organised by and for the community. We are very proud that technical User Groups from all over the world (including Poland, Italy, France, Belgium, Egypt, Brazil, Austria, Ukraine, Germany, Latvia, Lithuania and more) are working with us. Raffle organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/ Continue the conversation at our Slack Grouplondonjavacommunity.slack.com Sign up here if you're not a member:https://barrycranford.typeform.com/to/IIyQxd
**Please note that this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place** 48 hour Raffle to win one of two free tickets for Devoxx UK, London 11-12 May 2017 Devoxx UK, the conference with particularly strong links with the LJC, is less than two months away and we are offering you the chance to win one of two free tickets to this year's event. Here's what the organisers have told us about this year's conference: We've already have a brilliant range of content confirmed across 11 tracks, with more than 100 hours of sessions and activities to choose from in 2 conference days. And there are more exciting things to be announced soon. Being so close to Java 9 release we're pleased to have Mark Reinhold, Chief Architect of the Java Platform Group, join us for some technical deep-dives, whilst Trisha Gee will move beyond modularity in talking about Real World Java 9. With a plethora of Server Side Java topics, sessions spanning JVM languages, and delves into Architecture and Security practices, Devoxx UK has a core of brilliant content covered. For something a little different, you could check out how Programming Your Body With Chip Implants can be a reality, or even virtual reality in Java, for that matter. If you're interested in learning about teams and leadership, we have plenty for you starting with the Symphony of Leadership. And if IoT is your thing, we have Alexa to frameworks to how to integrating devices into your home. For a full round-up of confirmed talks so far, check out http://cfp.devoxx.co.uk/2017/agenda/conf/thursday Devoxx UK strives to give busy developers the very latest, need-to-know information to help you improve your skills and understanding. As well as great conference sessions and workshops, we'll have an amazing Hackergarden, the not-to-be-missed DevRoxx party and some new fun things to keep you busy. For your chanceofafreeticket Simply RSVP on this event page and well draw a winner from all entrants on Monday morning. **Please note that the prize is for a free conference ticket only, and does not cover accommodation or travel costs.** And if you don't win... Theres good news even if you are not a lucky winner, because the awesome folks at Devoxx are offering a 20% discount to all LJC members. Just use the code DVX17JLJC20 when you buy your ticket at http://www.devoxx.co.uk About the organisers: Devoxx is the developer community conference, and Devoxx UK has long established links with the LJC. Every year the Devoxx Family welcomes over 11,000 developers to events in Belgium, France, UK, Poland, Morocco & the USA. Raffle organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/ Continue the conversation at our Slack Grouplondonjavacommunity.slack.com Sign up here if you're not a member:https://barrycranford.typeform.com/to/IIyQxd
Structuring your codebase without the build pipeline in mind may lead to a situation where your changes force rebuilding things that don't really need to be rebuilt. In this talk I'll go through different scenarios that create this effect, showing ways in which the situation can be fixed. Tonight's speaker Abraham Marin-Perez is a Java programmer and enthusiastic agilist. Abraham's main focus is finding out what maximises a team's capacity to deliver in the long term, looking at the technical aspects (like fully automated CI/CD) to the psychological ones (like matching personality types), and then everything in between. Given his broad reach he often finds himself exploring unchartered territory, and then shares his experiences in his blog. Agenda: 6:15 Doors open 6:30 Talk starts **N.B. Skills Matter are hosting this LJC event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: https://skillsmatter.com/meetups/9243-breaking-down-your-build-architectural-patterns-for-a-more-efficient-pipeline Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/ Continue the conversation at our Slack Group:londonjavacommunity.slack.com- Sign up here if you're not a member:https://barrycranford.typeform.com/to/IIyQxd
This is a joint session broadcast between the Virtual JUG and the London Java Community, live from London. You are welcome to join us in London, or online with the Virtual JUG, or participate via your JUG - make them aware about this meetup! Take part in Java technology evolution through the Java Community Process (JCP) program. You can participate in this session on your own as an individual, through your employer, or as part of a nonprofit such as a Java User Group (JUG). Currently there are new JSRs being submitted and developed for the Java EE 8 and Java SE 9 platforms. In this session we will be doing a hack day as part of the global Adopt OpenJDK program getting ready for the release of Java SE 9. We kicked off a testing program in November 2016 getting ready the release of Java 9 coming in July 2017. This is a hack day as part of the ongoing global adoption and outreach effort. This is an all day hands on hack session covering the new modules system in Java 9, the JLink tool which allows you to create Java images with your application, and also how to migrate to the new Java 9 modular system with an older app. A laptop is required. Bring your project and run it on Java 9 EA with fellow JUG members! Download the latest EA build of JDK 9 to follow along: https://jdk9.java.net/download/ . Speakers: Heather VanCura is the Chair of the Java Community Process (JCP) Program at Oracle, international speaker, leader of Global Adopt-a-JSR program in conjunction with Java User Group leaders, organizer of developer hack days (aka Hackergartens) around the world and Spec Lead of JSR 364, Broadening JCP Membership, through the Java Community Process (JCP) Program. Heather is passionate about growing Java technology and community building dynamics. She enjoys trying new sports and fitness activities in her free time and helping to grow diversity in the technology space. Mani Sarkar is a passionate developer mainly in the Java/JVM space, currently living and working in the UK. A member of the London Java Community (LJC), JCP Member, OpenJDK contributor (has been heavily involved with this project in the past), involved in number of developer communities, and F/OSS projects. He sees himself working in the areas of core Java, JVM, JDK, Hotspot, Nashorn and Performance Tuning. Advocate of a number of agile and software craftsmanship practices and a regular at many talks, conferences and hands-on-workshops. Expresses his thoughts often via blog posts, tweets and other forms of social media. He can be found on twitter at @theNeomatrix369. Simon Maple is the Director of Developer Relations at ZeroTurnaround, a Java Champion since 2014, JavaOne Rockstar speaker in 2014, Duke's Choice award winner, Virtual JUG founder and organiser, London Java Community co-leader and RebelLabs author. He is an experienced speaker, having presented at JavaOne, JavaZone, Jfokus, DevoxxUK, DevoxxFR, JavaZone, JMaghreb and many more including many JUG tours. His passion is around user groups and communities. When not traveling, Simon enjoys spending quality time with his family, cooking and eating great food. Rough ScheduleYou can get into the offices from around 10am onwards and have some breakfast and coffee, relax and take in the stunning view from the 26th & 27th floors of the Salesforce Tower. 10.00am - doors open10.30am - Modules introduction 12 pm - Lunch time/Break (sandwiches, fruit and drinks provided, requests taken) 1pm onwards - JLink2pm onwards - Module migration or JShell3.30pm - Q&A and closing down (optional: carry discussions into the pub) Sign upPlease include a first and last name when prompted to (if its not on your meetup profile) so we can register you with building security, otherwise you may have to wait in reception for a long time. Food & drink will be provided, thanks to our hosts Salesforce Sponsor message Start building & deploying your apps in the cloud with free developer environments from developer.salesforce.com and www.heroku.com Continue the conversation at our Slack Group:londonjavacommunity.slack.com - Sign up here if you're not a member:https://barrycranford.typeform.com/to/IIyQxd
**Please note that this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place** 48 hour Raffle to win a free ticket tothe JBCN Conference,the biggest Java and JVM Conference in Spain,19 to 21 of June in Barcelona. In this 3rd edition of the conference we are very proud of where we are and what we are getting. We are bringing selected and renowned speakers including Venkat Subramaniam, Andres Almiray, LJC members Simon Maple, Trisha Gee and Sandro Mancuso, and many more (almost 10 Java champions in total). We invite you to check out the speakers confirmed so far athttp://www.jbcnconf.com/2017/speakers.html We will cover many different topics in 2 days of talks, fom #Java to #JVM langs (Scala/Cloujure/Groovy/Kotlin...), from #microservices to #kubernetes, from #lambdas to #reactive and #iot. Take a look in the talks list for the details http://www.jbcnconf.com/2017/talks.html Conference talks will be held from Monday 19 to Tuesday 20 andWorkshops will run on Wednesday 21 until noon. And last, but not least, you cannot miss the amazing party speciallyorganized for our attendees on Monday evening. Hope to see you all in Barcelona in June! ;-) For your chanceofafreeticket Simply RSVP on this event page and well draw a winner from all entrants after the Bank Holiday weekend. **Please note that the prize is for a free conference ticket only and does not cover accommodation or travel costs.** And if you don't win... ... don't miss the chance offered tomembers of the LJC to buy a ticket with 10% discount using the codeLOnd0Njug-BcnJUGat http://www.jbcnconf.com/2017/#Tickets About the organisers:The Barcelona JUG was founded in 2013, andlike the LJC is a community of developers. Raffle organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here: http://blog.recworks.co.uk/ Continue the conversation at our Slack Grouplondonjavacommunity.slack.com Sign up here if you're not a member:https://barrycranford.typeform.com/to/IIyQxd
We are pleased to bring you the next event of the Docklands.LJC; a group within the main London Java Community that focuses on the developer community in and around Docklands each month. Our speakers this month areJohn Matthew Holt, founder and CTO of Waratekand Abraham Marin-Perez, one of the leaders of the London Java Community.They're both engaging and experienced speakers, so attendance is highly recommended. As the spaces are limited, places will be preferentially allocated to those who have attended previously and first-timers; those with a low attendance record may be removed. *** Please note ***Your *FULL NAME* is required by building security in order to attend.If your username is not your full name, please add it when registering, otherwise you will be REMOVED from the event. ********************* Arrive from 6:15pm, talks will begin promptly at 6:30pm.Attendees arriving after 6:40pm will not be admitted. The program is as follows: - 6:15 pm Doors open - 6:25pm Introductions - 6:30pm Speaker One and Q& A session. Approx 60 min in total - 7:30pm Speaker Two and Q& A session. Approx 60 min in total - 8:30pm Wrap up & beer at Davy's, our official watering hole Nearest coffee shop Caf Brera, One Canada Square, Cabot Place, if you arrive early. John Matthew Holt - Advances in Java Security.------------------------------------------------- In this presentation John Matthew will look at the problems faced in securing both new and legacy Java applications and how adding security to the runtime environment provides fast, accurate protection for code you have written yourself and third party code. John Matthew will look at the Struts 2 vulnerability, the challenges in protecting against Deserialization attacks and he will look forward to the problems that lie ahead with Java 9. Abraham Marin-Perez -Breaking Down Your Build: Architectural Patterns For A More Efficient Build Pipeline ------------------------------------------------- Do you find constantly rebuilding things that dont need rebuilding? If yes, this talk is for you. The way your codebase is structured impacts what you need to rebuild after each commit, therefore, the codebase needs to be re-architectured with the build pipeline in mind. Sometimes youll have many responsibilities packed in one module, so you rebuild all of them every time you change one. Or maybe you have a multi-tiered application and adding a feature implies modifying (and rebuilding) all tiers, with cascading effects. In this talk well go over scenarios like this and others, showing how the code can be rewritten in a way that minimises unnecessary rebuilds. In the end, youll be equipped with a number of techniques that will help you manage your build pipeline. Bios==== John Matthew Holt is the inventive inspiration and technical driving force behind Warateks groundbreaking research and development into distributed computing and virtualization technologies, which has led to the granting of over 50 patents to date with many more pending. Abraham Marin-Perez is a Java programmer, author, public speaker and Agile consultant. He works with other organisations and helps them achieve their objectives through a number of varying challenges, both technical and non-technical. He also helps run the London Java Community, and contributes as a Java Editor at InfoQ. We're Social and Online!See recordings of previous meetups at www.docklandsljc.co.uk and at our InfoQ area: https://www.infoq.com/docklands-ljc/ Follow us on Twitter to hear about new and upcoming events: @docklandsljc
hackthetower.co.uk is a hack day for any and all developers to come and collaborate on projects or discover new technologies together and enhance their skills. Bring your laptop and your desire to try things out & have fun! This is a self-organising event, so please suggest some projects, programming concepts or technologies you would like to work on in the comments. Rough ScheduleYou can get into the offices from around 10am onwards and have some breakfast and coffee, relax and take in the stunning view from the 26th & 27th floors of the Salesforce Tower. 10.00am - doors open10.30am - Get together and discuss application ideas & things you want to try out. 10.45am - Split into groups and get going1pm - Lunch time (sandwiches, fruit and drinks provided, requests taken)1.30pm onwards - Keep on hacking until you have had enough or want to go to the pub! Sign upPlease include a first and last name when prompted to (if its not on your meetup profile) so we can register you with building security, otherwise you may have to wait in reception for a long time. Food & drink will be provided, thanks to our hosts Salesforce Sponsor message Start building & deploying your apps in the cloud with free developer environments from developer.salesforce.com and www.heroku.com Continue the conversation at our Slack Group:londonjavacommunity.slack.com - Sign up here if you're not a member:https://barrycranford.typeform.com/to/IIyQxd
**Please note that this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place** Win one free ticket to JAX London, October 9-12, 2017 JAX London is a four-day conference for cutting-edge software engineers and enterprise level professionals. JAX brings together the worlds leading innovators in the fields of JAVA, microservices, continuous delivery and DevOps. You can see the full conference details at https://jaxlondon.com/ The organisers have generously donated one free conference ticket to be raffled to members of the LJC. To win, just RSVP to this event and on Monday morning we will draw a name at random and send the lucky winner details about how to redeem their ticket. **Please note that the prize is for a free conference ticket only and does not cover accommodation or travel costs.** And if you are not lucky enough to winthe organisers have given us a code that all members can use for a 10% discount off tickets. Just quote MP_LJC10 when you buy your ticket athttps://jaxlondon.com/tickets/?go=ok(BTW this includes a discount off the Very Early Bird ticket price available until 27 July.) About the organisers:JAX London is the Conference for JAVA & Software Innovation Raffle organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/ Continue the conversation at our Slack Grouplondonjavacommunity.slack.com Sign up here if you're not a member:https://barrycranford.typeform.com/to/IIyQxd
This talk provides a high-level overview of a different way to think about and build software architecture. An evolutionary architecture supports incremental, guided change as a first principle across multiple dimensions. For many years, software architecture was described as the "parts that are hard to change later". But then microservices showed that if architects build evolvability into the architecture, change becomes easier. This talk, based on my upcoming eponymous book, investigates the family of software architectures that support evolutionary change, along with how to build evolvable systems. Understanding how to evolve architecture requires understanding how different parts of architecture interact; I describe how to achieve appropriate coupling between components and services. Incremental change is critical for the mechanics of evolution; I cover how to build engineering and DevOps practices to support continuous change. Uncontrolled evolution leads to undesirable side effects; I cover how fitness functions build protective, testable scaffolding around critical parts to guide the architecture as it evolves. The software development ecosystem exists in a state of dynamic equilibrium, where any new tool, framework, or technique leads to disruption and the establishment of a new equilibrium. Predictability is impossible when the foundation architects plan against changes constantly in unexpected ways. Instead, prefer evolvability over predictability. Neal Ford is Software Architect and Meme Wrangler at ThoughtWorks, a global IT consultancy with an exclusive focus on end-to-end software development and delivery. He is also the designer and developer of applications, instructional materials, magazine articles, courseware, video/DVD presentations, and author and/or editor of 6 books spanning a variety of technologies, including the most recent The Productive Programmer. He focuses on designing and building of large-scale enterprise applications. He is also an internationally acclaimed speaker, speaking at over 100 developer conferences worldwide, delivering more than 600 talks. Check out his web site at nealford.com. He welcomes feedback and can be reached at nford@thoughtworks.com. Agenda: 6:15 Doors open 6:30 Talk starts **N.B. Skills Matter are hosting this LJC event and are handling the attendance - it is essential that you confirm your place at this link: https://skillsmatter.com/meetups/9382-building-evolutionary-architectures Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/ Continue the conversation at our Slack Group:londonjavacommunity.slack.com- Sign up here if you're not a member:https://barrycranford.typeform.com/to/IIyQxd
**Please note this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place** 48HR RAFFLE: Free Single day ticket for BCS SPA conference June 26-28th, Southampton Street, LondonWC2E 7HA SPA is the annual 3-day London conference of the British Computer Society (BCS) SPA group. The conference is quite unique as its very interactive, with nearly all of the sessions involving coding, group work or other practical activity. This year there are sessions on Pair Programming, Serverless Computing, Applied Cold Reading for Software Practitioners, Continuous Delivery, Adopting Kotlin and much, much more. There really is something for everyone! The full conference programme is here:http://spaconference.org/spa2017/programme.html The conference has a strong community around it, with many people coming back year after year, and the organisers would love to welcome some LJCers to the SPA community. So they have made the generous offer of a free Single day ticket for the conference for one lucky winner and a discount code for everyone else, and hope that theyll see you at the conference. The conference is deliberately priced very economically, due to sponsorship and BCS support. We have 10% discount codes to use as follows: For the full 3 DAY CONFERENCE the booking link ishttps://events.bcs.org/book/2313and the discount code is:2313-FNY-VCC (case sensitive use as is) To book a SINGLE DAY, the booking link ishttps://events.bcs.org/book/2314/and the discount code is:2314-HDN-NCY (case sensitive use as is) About the organisers: SPA is the Software Practice Advancement specialist group of BCS, The Chartered Institute for IT. You can read their aims and mission here. SPA: - organise regular events in three centres: London, Cambridge and Guernsey. - organise and run the SPA conference series and occasional lecture series - run a Wiki for members **Please note that the prize is for entry to the conference only, and does not include travel or accommodation costs.** Raffle organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/
hackthetower.co.uk is a hack day for any and all developers to come and collaborate on projects or discover new technologies together and enhance their skills. Bring your laptop and your desire to try things out & have fun! This is a self-organising event, so please suggest some projects, programming concepts or technologies you would like to work on in the comments. Rough ScheduleYou can get into the offices from around 10am onwards and have some breakfast and coffee, relax and take in the stunning view from the 26th & 27th floors of the Salesforce Tower. 10.00am - doors open10.30am - Get together and discuss application ideas & things you want to try out. 10.45am - Split into groups and get going1pm - Lunch time (sandwiches, fruit and drinks provided, requests taken)1.30pm onwards - Keep on hacking until you have had enough or want to go to the pub! Sign upPlease include a first and last name when prompted to (if its not on your meetup profile) so we can register you with building security, otherwise you may have to wait in reception for a long time. Food & drink will be provided, thanks to our hosts Salesforce Sponsor message Start building & deploying your apps in the cloud with free developer environments from developer.salesforce.com and www.heroku.com Continue the conversation at our Slack Group:londonjavacommunity.slack.com - Sign up here if you're not a member:https://barrycranford.typeform.com/to/IIyQxd
We are pleased to bring you the next event of the Docklands.LJC; a group within the main London Java Community that focuses on the developer community in and around Docklands each month. Our speaker this month is Alon Eizenman, CTO and co-founder of SeaLights As the spaces are limited, places will be preferentially allocated to those who have attended previously and first-timers; those with a low attendance record may be removed. *** Please note ***Your *FULL NAME* is required by building security in order to attend.If your username is not your full name, please add it when registering, otherwise you will be REMOVED from the event. ********************* Arrive from 6:15pm, talks will begin promptly at 6:30pm.Attendees arriving after 6:40pm will not be admitted. The program is as follows: - 6:15 pm Doors open - 6:25pm Introductions - 6:30pm Speaker One and Q& A session. Approx 60 min in total - 7:30pm Wrap up & beer at Davy's, our official watering hole Nearest coffee shop Caf Brera, One Canada Square, Cabot Place, if you arrive early. Alon Eizenman - Continuous Testing | The Future of QA.------------------------------------------------------------------------ First came agile, then came DevOps and Continuous Delivery, now comes Continuous Testing.In this new reality of rapid releases, incremental changes, and short QA cycles, testing is becoming a bottleneck. Continuous Testing is a major opportunity for QA leaders to redefine the strategic role in the organization, specifically as drivers of quality within Continuous Delivery.Join us for an overview of the upcoming challenges that you will face as QA leaders and how Continuous Testing willbring you through these changes on top. Bios==== Alon Eizenmanis the CTO & Co-Founder ofSeaLights. Alon has over 20 years of management experience in emerging and high growth enterprise software. He served as CTO and Co-Founder of Nolio (acquiredby CA Technologies) one of the first Continuous Deployment platforms. As a VP Strategy at CA Technologies, he wasleading strategic Continuous Delivery projects for top global companies. Prior to Nolio, Alon was the VP R&D and co-founder of Coridan (acquired by BEA), along with senior research and development positions at Mercury Interactive (acquired by HP) and Conduct (acquired by Mercury Interactive).Alon has broad experience in conception complete product life-cycle development of enterprise and information technology software. SeaLights: Sealights is the first cloud-based, continuous testing platform designed to speed up your QA cycles and achieve the highest quality results. SeaLightswill measure your exact code coverage calculated across all test tools and environments.identifies and tracks Quality Holes across both unit and functional test environments, providing both individual and aggregate environment analysis.With it, teams can drill down into their quality metrics from all environments and frameworks in one centralized quality dashboard always in comparison to the last build. We're Social and Online!See recordings of previous meetups at www.docklandsljc.co.uk and at our InfoQ area: https://www.infoq.com/docklands-ljc/ Follow us on Twitter to hear about new and upcoming events: @docklandsljc
In this talk, Ben Evans will introduce some fundamentals of cryptocurrency, before diving deep into Java bytecode and classloading, to discuss a new way to make the JVM environment suitable for running 'smart contracts'. These contracts have applications to distributed cryptographic ledgers, blockchains and cryptocurrencies. Ben will then introduce a real example based on R3's Corda ledger (part of the Hyperledger project) and discuss some future directions and practical applications. Developers who are interested in learning more about the JVM's bytecode and classloading subsystems should attend. No previous knowledge or experience of distributed ledgers, cryptocurrency or blockchains is required. Ben Evans is an author, speaker, consultant and educator. His career highlights to date include: Co-founding jClarity, a performance startup, Chief Architect for Listed Derivatives at DB, performance testing the Google IPO, building award-winning websites for some of Hollywood's biggest hits of the 90s, building multibillion dollar low-latency trading systems and designing technology to help some of the UK's most vulnerable people. Ben is a Java Champion, JavaOne Rockstar Speaker award and a Java Editor at InfoQ. He represents the user community as a voting member on the Java Community Process Executive Committee. Ben is author of "The Well-Grounded Java Developer", "Java: The Legend", the new edition of "Java in a Nutshell" and the forthcoming "Optimizing Java". He is a regular speaker and educator on topics such as the Java platform, systems architecture, security, performance and concurrency at companies and conferences all over the world. Agenda: 6:15 Doors open 6:30 Talk starts **N.B. Skills Matter are hosting this LJC event and will allocate a meeting room based on the number of registrations they receive via their own link. It is thereforeessential that you confirm your place at this link: https://skillsmatter.com/meetups/9427-the-jvm-as-a-platform-for-building-smart-contracts Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/ Continue the conversation at our Slack Group:londonjavacommunity.slack.com- Sign up here if you're not a member:https://barrycranford.typeform.com/to/IIyQxd
Python is a very popular language, with huge momentum in areas such as education and data science. Tariq Rashid will introduce Python, explaining it's highlights and demonstrating the ease and simplicity of the language. He'll discuss some of the benefits and challenges of Python from a business and engineering angle. This beginner-to-intermediate level talk will be suitable for complete beginners to coding, as well as anyone who can code but is new to Python. After this talk you will have appreciated how simple many tasks are with Python, seen simple readable examples of Python, have a feel for the most popular tools used with Python, and have an initial view of the benefits and challenges from a business perspective. Tariq Rashid has loved open source for over 20 years and first fell in love with Python in the last century! He's had fun with open source across diverse areas as astrophysics, civil energy, security, and numerical computing in finance, web data mining and telecoms grade networking. More recently I've particularly enjoyed helping the UK government break down barriers to open source, and used some cool technologies for social good. Right now he's enjoying making technology and maths accessible to as many people as possible - eg by teaching Python to complete beginners, and helping make neural networks understandable. Tariq organises the London Python and Algorithmic Art meetup groups, and is the author of the Amazon Bestseller, Make Your Own Neural Network. You can follow Tariq on Twitter@postenterprise @python_london forLondon Python @algorithmic_art forAlgorithmic Art Agenda: 6:15 Doors open 6:30 Talk starts **N.B. Skills Matter are hosting this LJC event and will allocate a meeting room based on the number of registrations they receive via their own link. It is thereforeessential that you confirm your place at this link: https://skillsmatter.com/meetups/9702-a-introduction-to-python Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/ Continue the conversation at our Slack Group:londonjavacommunity.slack.com- Sign up here if you're not a member:https://barrycranford.typeform.com/to/IIyQxd
We are pleased to bring you the next event of the Docklands.LJC; a group within the main London Java Community that focuses on the developer community in and around Docklands each month. Our speakers this month are Can Gencer and James Gough As the spaces are limited, places will be preferentially allocated to those who have attended previously and first-timers; those with a low attendance record may be removed. *** Please note ***Your *FULL NAME* is required by building security in order to attend.If your username is not your full name, please add it when registering, otherwise you will be REMOVED from the registration list. ********************* Arrive from 6:15pm, talks will begin promptly at 6:30pm.Attendees arriving after 6:40pm will not be admitted. The program is as follows: - 6:15 pm Doors open - 6:25pm Introductions - 6:30pm Speaker One and Q& A session. Approx 60 min in total - 7:30pm Speaker Two and Q& A session. Approx 60 min in total - 8:30pm Wrap up & beer at Davy's, our official watering hole Nearest coffee shop Caf Brera, One Canada Square, Cabot Place, if you arrive early. James Gough - How the JVM executes Java------------------------------------------------------------------------ When Java was released in 1995 it was slow, a reputation it has carried for many years... Today Java can give performance that is comparable to C++ and can emit instructions that are more optimal than code which is statically compiled. But how? This talk will take a tour of code and the journey through the JVM and the optimisations in between. Using practical examples, JVM flags and the Open Source JIT Watch we will explore what the JVM does in an adaptation of the classic Hello World program, you'll never look at Java in the same way again Can Gencer - Introduction to Hazelcast JET------------------------------------------------------------------------ Hazelcast Jet is a general purpose distributed data processing engine based around directed acyclic graphs built on Hazelcast. The Jet engine also powers a distributed java.util.stream implementation. The talk will introduce the general concepts behind DAG-based data processing and then show how a java.util.stream implementation works on top of Hazelcast distributed data structures. Bios==== James Gough is a technical trainer and writer specialising in Java. He spends the majority of his time teaching advanced Java and concurrency courses to developers with varying technical backgrounds. He serves on the Java Community Process Executive Committee and contributed towards the design and testing of JSR-310, the date time system built for Java 8. James is a regular public speaker and helps organise events at the London Java Community. Can Gencer is a Turkish software developer currently based in Copenhagen, Denmark and is the team lead for Hazelcast Jet. Prior to joining Hazelcast, he worked as a software development consultant to some of the worlds leading investment banks. We're Social and Online!See recordings of previous meetups at www.docklandsljc.co.uk and at our InfoQ area: https://www.infoq.com/docklands-ljc/ Follow us on Twitter to hear about new and upcoming events: @docklandsljc
Whats the shortest trip to visit all European capitals? Or the cheapest vehicle routing schedule to restock all our retail stores? How do we optimize our cloud machines? When do we assign nurses to shifts in our hospitals to make them as happy as possible? Which crops do we plant on which fields for the optimal revenue? Whats the fairest tennis club schedule? Which algorithms work well and scale out on these kind of planning problems? Certainly not Brute Force or other exhaustive heuristics! In this session, we will: - Introduce constraint satisfaction optimization - Demo a few use cases - Use weighted hard and soft constraints to formalize business goals - Walk through a bit of example code in Java of the open sourceconstraint satisfaction solver OptaPlanner - Explain how continuous planning or real-time planning works - Dealwith scalability challenges by using heuristics and metaheuristics(such as Tabu Search and Simulated Annealing). Geoffrey De Smet is the founder and project lead of OptaPlanner (www.optaplanner.org), the leading open source constraint satisfaction solver in Java. He enjoys assisting developers optimize challenging planning problems of real-world enterprises. He also participates regularly in academic competitions. He started coding Java in 1999 and he regularly contributes to other open source projects too. You can follow Geoffrey on Twitter@GeoffreyDeSmet Agenda: 6:15 Doors open 6:30 Talk starts **N.B. Skills Matter are hosting this LJC event and will allocate a meeting room based on the number of registrations they receive via their own link. It is thereforeessential that you confirm your place at this link: https://skillsmatter.com/meetups/9720-constraint-solving-in-java-with-optaplanner Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/ Continue the conversation at our Slack Group:londonjavacommunity.slack.com- Sign up here if you're not a member:https://barrycranford.typeform.com/to/IIyQxd
When Java was released in 1995 it was slow, a reputation it has carried for many years... Today Java can give performance that is comparable to C++ and can emit instructions that are more optimal than code which is statically compiled. But how? This talk will take a tour of code and the journey through the JVM and the optimisations in between. Using practical examples, JVM flags and the Open Source JIT Watch we will explore what the JVM does in an adaptation of the classic Hello World program, you'll never look at Java in the same way again. **Please note that this talk is the same one that James is giving to the Docklands.LJC on 10 July. We are delighted that James has is available to speak at Skills Matter too, as this maximises the number of members who can hear the talk. James Goughis a technical trainer and writer specialising in Java. He spends the majority of his time teaching advanced Java and concurrency courses to developers with varying technical backgrounds. He serves on the Java Community Process Executive Committee and contributed towards the design and testing of JSR-310, the date time system built for Java 8. James is a regular public speaker and helps organise events at the London Java Community. Agenda: 6:15 Doors open 6:30 Talk starts **N.B. Skills Matter are hosting this LJC event and will allocate a meeting room based on the number of registrations they receive via their own link. It is thereforeessential that you confirm your place at this link: https://skillsmatter.com/meetups/9801-how-the-jvm-executes-java Event organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/ Continue the conversation at our Slack Group:londonjavacommunity.slack.com- Sign up here if you're not a member:https://barrycranford.typeform.com/to/IIyQxd
**Please note this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place** 48 hour raffle: One free ticket ThingMonk September 11-13, 2017:Developing the Digital Twin ThingMonk is the developer conference for people making IoT platforms. Now in its fifth year, we bring together technologists and designers building core infrastructure for IoT for 2.5 days of awesome, unique talks on topics including bots, industrial automation/industry 4.0, machine learning, time series data, programming language choices and UX. Were not cheerleaders for thoughtless automation - well have sceptical, thoughtful critical talks about creating a culture and making the right design decisions so that the IoT serves us, rather than us serving it. We kick things off with a set of tutorials and coding workshops on day one. These are talks by practitioners for practitioners. This year we are delighted to welcome back our friends at the Eclipse Foundation for a morning of Eclipse focused talks on 11 September. You can find full details of the schedule online at http://thingmonk.com To enter the raffle, simply RSVP to this meetup and well draw the winner at random on Monday morning. Well send the winner a code to use to redeem their free ticket. Please note that the prize is for a free ticket only, and does not include any travel or accommodation costs. ** Check out the ThingMonk diversity program. The programme is now open for applications at http://thingmonk.com/thingmonk/cfp/2017/08/01/thingmonk-diversity-scholarship.html. The organisers tell us: We have been privileged to work with a wonderfully diverse group of people since starting ThingMonk, and make a point of creating a conference where everyone is welcome. Sadly there is always far more work to be done to help with diversity in tech. All of us atRedMonkare privileged and immensely grateful to be able to work with people that want to help the technology industry become a more diverse and welcoming place. Details and the online application are at http://thingmonk.com/thingmonk/cfp/2017/08/01/thingmonk-diversity-scholarship.html ** Theres more! If you are not eligible for a diversity scholarship, or lucky enough to win a free ticket in this raffle, ThingMonk are still keen to make it as affordable as possible for everyone interested to take part in the conference. There is a generous 20% discount on ticket prices if you enter the case sensitive promotional code ljcwhen you buy your ticket at http://bit.ly/tmonk2017 About the organisers: RedMonk helps people understand software developers and why they make the choices they do. We call developers the New Kingmakers. We learn from devs rather than spending our time with CIOs, purchasing and legal people. And we put on really good events. **Please note that the prize is for entry to the conference only, and does not include travel or accommodation costs.** Raffle organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/
**Please note this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place** 48 hour raffle 1 free bronze pass to Software Architecture Conference, London 16-18 October 2017 The theme for the OReilly Software Architecture Conference this October is Engineer the future of software. This fast-paced and practical conference aims to provide the understanding of the tradeoffs, technology options, and engineering practices that are critical to the long-term success of many companies and which depend on the effectiveness and versatility of their software architecture teams to design, implement, and deploy their products and services. The conference aims to meet the needs of all: veteran and aspiring software architects, engineers, and senior developers. Topics covered include: Software architecture fundamentals Business skills DevOps Scale Security Distributed systems Integration architecture Microservices (pros and cons) Reactive and its variants User experience design Optimization Check out the full details and the list of speakers at: https://conferences.oreilly.com/software-architecture/sa-eu To enter this raffle:simply RSVP on this event page. On Monday morning we'll draw a winner at random from all the entrants and message the lucky winner with details of how to redeem their ticket. **Please note that the Bronze pass available free through this raffle gives access to the keynotes and sessions held on 16 18 October. OReilly are also offering a 20% discount which can be used to buy Gold, Silver or Bronze passes. Gold and Silver passes give access to tutorials and other benefits you can see the details online https://conferences.oreilly.com/software-architecture/sa-eu/public/register Just quote code PCLDN20 when you buy the pass that suits you best via the link to claim your 20% discount. About the organisers: O'Reilly spreads the knowledge of innovators through its technology books, online services, research, and tech conferences. An active participant in the technology community, O'Reilly has a long history of advocacy, meme-making, and evangelism. OReilly Conferences give you the knowledge to change your business by bringing you face-to-face with leading technology innovators and practitioners. **Please note that the prize is for entry to the conference only, and does not include travel or accommodation costs.** Raffle organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/
**Please note this is an online promotion and no actual meeting will take place** 48 hour raffle Two free tickets for WS02ConEU Digital Transformation Conference, London, 6-8 November There are several strands to November's WS02ConEUDigital Transformation conference, so whether you are looking to focus ontech strategy and integration or to learn about the new Ballerinalanguage (a general purpose, concurrent and strongly typedprogramming language with both textual and graphical syntaxes,optimized for integrationhttps://ballerinalang.org) you can choosethe sessions that meet your interests. In today's digital world, organizations must find innovative waysto compete and thrive. The need to be able to rapidly innovate andadapt to new opportunities is greater than ever before. WSO2Con EUis designed to help you identify the right technology to meettoday's demand for an agile approach to integration, API management,identity and access management, smart analytics, and the Internet ofThings - the key ingredients to help you shape your digitalbusiness. You can check out the preliminary agendaon the website.More speakers are being added all the time... About the organisers:WSO2 uniquely increases the agility of digital businesses andenterprises engaging in digital transformation. It offers the onlycompletely integrated enterprise platform that enables businesses tobuild, integrate, manage, secure and analyze their APIs,applications,and web serviceson-premises, in the cloud, on mobile devices, andacross the Internet of Things. Today, these businesses representnearly every sector: health, financial, retail, logistics,manufacturing, travel, technology, telecom and more. To enter this raffle:simply RSVP on this event page. On Monday morning we'll draw two winners at random from all the entrants and message the lucky winners with details of how to redeem their ticket. **Please note that the prize is for entry to the conference only, and does not include travel or accommodation costs.** If you are not lucky enough to win a free ticket, it's worth noting that Earlybird tickets are on sale until 31 August. Follow the links online. Raffle organised by the awesome folk at RecWorks - check out the blog here:http://blog.recworks.co.uk/
We are pleased to bring you the next event of the Docklands.LJC; a group within the main London Java Community that focuses on the developer community in and around Docklands each month. Our speakers this month areAnthony Kesterton from Redhat and Carl Jokl from Barclays As the spaces are limited, places will be preferentially allocated to those who have attended previously and first-timers; those with a low attendance record may be removed. *** Please note ***Your *FULL NAME* is required by building security in order to attend.If your username is not your full name, please add it when registering, otherwise you will be REMOVED from the registration list. ********************* Arrive from 6:15pm, talks will begin promptly at 6:30pm.Attendees arriving after 6:40pm may not be admitted. The program is as follows: - 6:15 pm Doors open - 6:25pm Introductions - 6:30pm Speaker One and Q& A session. Approx 60 min in total - 7:30pm Speaker Two and Q& A session. Approx 60 min in total - 8:30pm Wrap up & beer at Davy's, our official watering hole Nearest coffee shop Caf Brera, One Canada Square, Cabot Place, if you arrive early. Carl Jokl - Software Safety in Critical Systems------------------------------------------------------------ Examination of what the failures of Therac-25 and other critical systems taught us about Software Safety. The failure of FinTech systems may not result in loss of life but the the failure of financial systems can have dire consequences to individuals and businesses. Out of every tragedy and failure we can learn important lessons. The idea of the concept of Fail Safe is not that failure is never expected to occur but rather to make sure a system is specifically designed to manage any failure in a safe way and having a prepared strategy to be able to recover from any failure. Anthony Kesteron - An introduction to OpenShift for Financial Services--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Do containers and the highly-regulated financial services industry really mix? A lot of bank and other companies in the sector seem to think so, with a lot of adoption of this technology over the last few years. But how do you manage containers, keep compliant and satisfy audit? Red Hat customers have been managing and running complex container-based applications using OpenShift - an open-source, enterprise-ready combination of Kubernetes and other upstream open-source projects. This session will explain what OpenShift is, how it works, and how it is being applied. The idea is to give you a better understanding of OpenShift and its practical application in the context of the Financial Services sector Bios==== Carl Joklhas over 10 years experience in Software Development comprising of work on all parts of the stack from back end to front end and mobile. Specialist knowledge of test automation from developer in test positions from organisations such as EA, Shazam and MailOnline. As an associate of the London Java User Group, responsible for Java technology used within mobile / embedded and IoT and collaboration with other Mobile focused communities. Assisting with Raspberry Pint Meetup. Representing the London Java User Group on the Java Community Process Executive Committee international Working Group for Java Mobile / Embedded. Interested in both technology to support teaching / education and the teaching / education of technology to others, including initiative such as Devoxx4Kids / Coder Dojos / PiJams teaching technology to children (currently developing a workshop to teach the basic principles of packet based networking). Anthony Kesteron started his computing career after seeing how boring studying law might be. Built hardware, written low-level code to control things, analysed satellite data before going to the real world and worked on software for INMOS Transputer. After a jump to C/C++ and Unix admin, he ended up doing more requirements and design work, and looked at development processes for customers while part of Rational Software. He then spent over a decade at Big Blue, working on Rational tools and processes again and then dipped his toe into the Cloud world with Cloud Foundry and DevOps tooling. He was delighted to join Red Hat where his colleagues are brilliant, people are very helpful and it felt like home from the very beginning. He tends to work with customers in the financial services sector, but has also spent time in telecoms and aerospace sectors. Apart from organising Red Hat speakers for Linuxing In London, he helps the Bloodhound Supersonic Car project as an Academic/Event volunteer Ambassador, and interviews people for the Kenley Battle of Britain oral history project We're Social and Online!See recordings of previous meetups at www.docklandsljc.co.uk and at our InfoQ area: https://www.infoq.com/docklands-ljc/and on our Youtube channel @Docklandsljc Follow us on Twitter to hear about new and upcoming events: @docklandsljc
Coinciding nicely with the release of Java 9 this week, Deloitte Digital have kindly opened up their doors to the London Java Community for a presentation about Java 9 features. We have a very limited number of places, First Come First Served! Trisha Gee will be presenting to Deloitte, and the London Java Community, showcasing via live coding the features in Java 9 that we're most likely to use as developers. --- The Talk: The feature we always hear about whenever Java 9 is in the news is Jigsaw, modularity. But this doesn't scratch the same developer itch that Java 8's lambdas and streams did, and we're left with a vague sensation that the next version might not be that interesting. Java 9 actually has a lot of great additions and changes to make development a bit nicer. These features can't be lumped under an umbrella term like Java 8's lambdas and streams, the changes are scattered throughout the APIs and language features that we regularly use. In this presentation Trisha will show, via live coding: What the Java Platform Module System is and how to make your code modular How we can use the new Flow API to utilise Reactive Programming The improvements to the Streams API that make it easier to control infinite streams How to the Collections convenience methods simplify code Along the way we'll bump into other Java 9 features, including some of the additions to interfaces and changes to deprecation. And of course we'll see some of the features of IntelliJ IDEA that make working with Java 9 a bit easier. --- Trisha has developed Java applications for a range of industries, including finance, manufacturing, software and non-profit, for companies of all sizes. She has expertise in Java high performance systems, is passionate about enabling developer productivity, and dabbles with Open Source development. Trisha is a leader of the Sevilla Java User Group and the London Java Community, and a Java Champion. She believes healthy communities and sharing ideas help us to learn from mistakes and build on successes. As a Developer Advocate for JetBrains, she gets to share all the interesting things shes constantly discovering.
